of the second and fourth stages because of their parallelism with the propositions of
sense-perception and then by considering the first and third stages. The essential
part of our task in passing concepts in review is the exhibition of the first and third
stages. The second and fourth stages will only be so far touched upon as seems
desirable for the purposes of elucidation.

Thus in respect to each concept considered the investigation will proceed as
follows:—A certain relation R (the essential relation of the concept in question),
which holds between a certain definite number of entities, is considered. The class
of entities, between sets of which this relation holds, is called the “field” of R.
Definitions of entities allied to R and to entities of the field of R are then given.
These definitions involve no hypotheses as to the properties of R, but are of no
importance unless R has as a matter of fact certain properties. For example, it may
happen that the classes, thus defined, are all the null class (7.¢., the class with no
members) unless R has the requisite properties. Again deductions (in the second
stage), made without any hypothesis as to the properties of R, may be entirely trivial
unless R has certain properties, If R has not the requisite properties the deductions
often sink into the assertion that a certain proposition which is false implies some
other proposition. This is true* but trifling. The “axioms” respecting R are then
given. These are the hypotheses as to the properties of R which are required in the
concept under consideration. Finally such deductions are given as are necessary to
elucidate the concept.

None of the reasoning of this memoir depends on any special logical doctrine which
may appear to be assumed in the form in which it is set out. Furthermore certain