

110 MR. P. V. BEVAN ON THE COMBINATION OF HYDROGEN

consider the question of unsaturated and molecular compounds, and first of all, the
doctrine of Valency. This doctrine, in spite of its very great use in the systemati-
zation of organic chemistry, has to some extent retarded progress by affording too
rigid a view of chemical compounds. Until we possess a dynamical conception of a
molecule, the theory of bonds can only be regarded as a method of expression of
general facts, and not in the sense of giving a representation of actually existing
links between atoms. Valency at present has no bearing on compounds which have
been called molecular, But no line can be drawn between these compounds and
definite atomic compounds, The fact of the existence of such controversies as that
as to whether phosphorus penta-chloride was an atomie compound or a molecular
compound of phosphorus trichloride and chlorine shows that there is really no
difference in kind between these two classes of compounds. Compounds which are
saturated under certain circumstances can under other circumstances combine with
other systems, so that the difference between saturated and unsaturated compounds
is merely one of degree. ‘ Apparently the only saturated molecules known to us at
present, molecules destitute of all power of exercising an external influence, are
those of gases such as helium and argon.”* There is therefore in all molecules,
excepting those of the inert gases of the atmosphere, a tendency to form more
complicated molecules, some residual affinity which is in many cases unaccounted
for on the Valeney theory. The difference then between molecular and atomic
compounds is a difference of stability under certain conditions, and we must recognise