410 PROFESSOR DUNSTAN AND DR. HENRY ON CYANOGENESIS IN PLANTS.

obtained a further insight into the nature of other eyanogenetic glucosides now under
investigation. So far as Lotus arabicus and Sorghum vulgare are concerned, it would
appear that the existence of a cyanogenetic glucoside in the young plant up to the
period when the seeds ripen at any rate may serve as an important protection to the
plant from the attacks of animals. It appears that animals, indigenous to the
countries in which these plants are native, refuse to eat them in the earlier and
poisonous stages of growth. The part played by the glucoside in the general
metabolism of these plants and the origin and fate of the eyanogenetic group still
remain to be ascertained. The temporary presence in a plant of a considerable
quantity of a eyanogenetic glucoside, together with an enzyme capable of decomposing
it, appears to us to be a fact which must have an important biological meaning.

As so much interest attaches to the subject from several points of view, we are
engaged in investigating the constituents of other plants which furnish prussic acid.
Among them we may mention Phaseolus lunatus (seeds), Lotus australis, Manihot
utilissima, and Linum usitatissmum, as well as a number of little known plants
derived from the Colonies which have proved to be poisonous to cattle, some of which
may contain cyanogenetic glucosides. From the chemical point of view it is
important, in the first instance, to isolate these glucosides and to ascertain their
properties, composition, and molecular structure. This work we have now accom-
plished with the glucosides of Lotus arabicus and Sorghum vulgare, which are shown
to be radically different in chemical constitution, whilst each belongs to a type
chemically distinct from that of amygdalin, the only naturally occurring cyanogenetic