the various yield-points shown in Diagram No. 2. At the first yield-point the
permanent set was found to be 0°08 of an inch on the 4-inch length, at the second
it was again 0°08 of an inch, at the third it was 0°11, at the fourth 0°15, and at
the fifth fracture occurred and only local yielding of about 0°07 of an inch was
obtained. Although the extensions at the third and fourth yield-points were thus
greater than those at the first and second, it is probable that theoretically there
need have been no such difference. Had it been possible to remove the load from
each little portion of the specimen as soon as the yielding which occurs at a
yield-point had spread throughout that portion of material, then probably the
yielding at the third and fourth yield-points would not have been different from
that at the first two. The extra extension at the higher yield-points was in all
likelihood due to creeping, which continued after the break-down which occurs at a
yield-point had taken place. In fact the elongation obtained at the fourth yield-
point shown in Diagram No. 2 would have been greater still had not the load been
removed shortly after the large yielding action had spread throughout the length
of the specimen. Had this not been done, creeping would have continued, and
probably fracture would have supervened, for previous experiments had shown that
there was considerable danger of fracture occurring when a yield-point was passed
at a high stress.*

The total elongation of the specimen whose history is given in Diagram 2 was
thus 0°49 of an inch, or rather over 12 per cent. on a 4-inch length. The breaking
load was 59} tons per sq. inch. Another specimen of this material which was
annealed and then broken by the testing machine in the usual fashion, that is,
without allowing intermediate recoveries of elasticity to take place, gave an ultimate