a reducing one.

Thirdly, a very large amount of fume is formed at the close of the second period.
This arises from the oxidation of metal and of phosphorus in the iron phosphide being
productive of a high temperature, but little or no carbon remaining in the bath; the
flame is comparatively short, and the metallic vapours carried up are burnt by the
blast.

Fourthly, the over-blow is characterised by a very powerful illumination, from
what appears to be a brilliant yellow flame which is generated within the vessel.
During this over-blow there is a copious production of dense fume, composed of
oxidised metallic vapours, chiefly iron. The particles forming the fume are undoubt-
edly of very minute dimensions, as is proved by the fact that they scatter the light
which falls upon them and cast a brown shadow, and the cloud of fume ascends to a
great height before it is dispersed. Such small particles while within the vessel are,
doubtless, at the same temperature as the escaping gases. The spectrum of the
over-blow is continuous and very feeble in the ultra-violet, as it does not extend
beyond wave-length 4000. This indicates that the source of light is at a compara-
tively low temperature, approaching that of a yellowish-white heat. We conclude,
therefore, that the source of light, or what apparently is a flame, really emanates
from a torrent of very small particles, liquid or solid, at a yellowish-white heat.
From the spectrum measurements we have evidence that the source of light during
the over-blow is at a much lower temperature than that which prevails during the
first period, when the highly heated carbon monoxide is undergoing combustion. This
is sufficient to account for the feeble character of the line spectra of the alkali metals,