0024 to ‘0029 centim. per second with Konnrauscu’s calculated value -0032.:
Considerations of temperature and of concentration, though important, are less so
than that of correct potential slope, and therefore may be passed over.

Perhaps the most striking of all Lopce’s experiments were those in which he
observed the velocities of Cl, Br, or I entering and travelling through a jelly tube
from the cathode end, while Sr or Ba travelled in the opposite direction. The
original jelly was charged with, among other things, a small proportion of Ag ions to
act by partial precipitation as an indicator of the progress of the halogen, and with
SO, ions to play a similar part towards the new cations. The observed velocities of
the former were in all cases approximately double those of the latter; whence LopcE
concluded that Cl, Br, and I are, as ions, naturally twice as fast as Sr and Ba. Here
again, however, the fact that the observed velocities were caused by unknown, and
presumably different, potential slopes necessarily vitiates the conclusion drawn. It
will be shown in the sequel that what really determined the interesting and simple
velocity ratios observed in this set of experiments was not the specific character of
the ions under inspection, but the composition of the intermediate solution into which
the Cl and Ba, or similar ions, had not yet penetrated. As, however, this was a
mixture, and the indications given of its composition are rather qualitative than
quantitative, no results of theoretical value can be deduced.

Wuernam’s method (Joc. cit.) rendered the use of gelatine unnecessary, as he
avoided gravity currents, at all events, by employing a vertical tube in which to
observe the rate of migration of the boundary between a coloured solution and a
colourless one during the passage of a current, the lighter solution lying above. He