heads for convenience of rotation; and each of the arms is slit from one side, the
slit passing through the centre of the screw hole and slightly beyond the latter, and
provided with a small clamping screw, which draws the two sides of the slit together,
binding the main vertical screw and thus enabling it to be firmly fixed in any
position. Both sides of the table are polished, and on one side three concentric
series of raised points are provided, three equi-distant ones in each series, and each
series increasing in height as the centre is receded from, These serve as rests for
objects of different sizes.

x The Compensation.

a It is an interesting fact that pure aluminium expands 2°6 times as much as
Splatinum-iridium for the same increment of temperature, and it is this fact which the
guthor has utilised for the purpose of effecting compensation for the expansion of the
platinum-iridium serews. A circular disc of aluminium, whose thickness is about ten
Siwenty-sixths of the length of the parts of the platinum-iridium screws projecting
Ghrough and above the table, is laid upon the latter. Provided adequate care has
‘been taken to adjust the screws to the length calculated for complete compensation,
obrom a knowledge of the two coefticients of expansion, it will be evident that the
‘Sxpansion of the apparatus is entirely eliminated. The length of screw provided
“auffords, after compensation, an available space of some millims. above the aluminium
Shlock in which to place the crystal or other substance to be investigated, and as this
‘pace remains unaltered by change of temperature, any alteration of the thickness of
She air layer between the upper surface of the object and the lower surface of the
2plass disc laid upon the screws must be entirely due to the expansion of the crystal.