been retained in the present argument because it is the assumption which is most
unfavourable to the view advocated. On the most unfavourable view, then, the
hydrogen diffusing through the wire should have produced an increase of at least
60 per cent. in the leak. Allowing an experimental uncertainty of 20 per cent., no
~change could be detected in the leak due to the diffusion of hydrogen through the
wire. This strongly supports the view, which also seems required on other grounds,
that the hydrogen does not act per se, but produces some change in the platinum
surface, and this change is prevented from taking place if the platinum is heated
in air,*

In contrast to the negative ionisation, the positive ionisation produced by the hot
platinum tube was found to be altered when hydrogen was allowed to diffuse through
from inside. In fact, at constant temperature an additional amount of ionisation is
eaused thereby which is proportional to the amount of hydrogen diffusing through
the tube.

At high temperatures the positive ionisation was found to be readily saturated.
Thus at 1200° C. the leak with +80 volts was equal to 64 divisions, and with
+400 volts 75 divisions with air inside the tube; with hydrogen diffusing through,
the values under these voltages were 88 and 95 divisions respectively. These
proportions were much the same, so the leak was generally measured with +80 volts,
as higher voltages were not always available. On changing from a low to a high
voltage, a big leak was often noticed at first, but this always fell away in a few
minutes, until, approximately, the above ratio was obtained. Effects of this kind
have already been described in detail (see §9). At low temperatures the positive