involving the interaction, with any molecule under consideration, of other molecules
at finite distances, which integrates into an energy function of applied mechanical
forces of the system, such for example as gravitational or magnetic forces. Of the
remainder of the energy, which arises from the mutual actions of neighbouring
molecules, a regular or organized part can be separated out which represents the
energy of elastic stress, and is a function of the deformation of the element ot
volume treated as a whole: this stress arising from the immediate surroundings in
part compensates, for the element of mass under consideration, the applied mechanical
forces aforesaid. The remaining, usually wholly irregular, parts of the local inter-
molecular forces and motions compensate themselves mutually on the spot,—or at
any rate can be considered as thus compensated by other such forces, of different
origins, that are not at present under consideration.* The temperature depends in
fact on this irregular residwwm of forces, and so do the density and the other
physical properties of the medium, which are thus affected when, owing to
polarization or other excitation, this local part of the molecular forces and motions
is altered. If we adhere to these principles, it will not be allowable, in deriving the
applied bodily forces of a polarized material system from its organized energy of
polarization, to vary such physical constants of the element of mass as occur in the
expression for the energy ; for we should thereby be trenching on that part of the
energy whose variation is compensated molecularly without directly originating
transmitted bodily forcive, ef: § 63.

49. It seems desirable to have names for the two parts into which the total energy
of the molecules of a material medium is thus divided. If we agree to maintain the
original precise meaning of the term mechanical (as above employed), viz. that a