
with it if the mean translatory energy of the molecules is the same for each. This
principle of temperature-equilibrium shows that, for all states of matter, the
equilibrium of energy between bodies in contact in a steady state involves that a
definite molecular relation of the one body shall equilibrate a definite molecular
relation of the other: and its universality requires that this relation, whatever it
may prove to be, shall be a very fundamental one.

51. It would seem that we can make at any rate an advance towards a complete
view by realizing that, even if our sensations of heat had not compelled us to assign
a fundamental place to temperature in the physical scheme, the principle of negation
of perpetual motions must have led to the formulation of that conception, just as it
has in fact led to the conception of potentials. If thermal equilibrium between two
homogeneous bodies A and B in contact were not conditioned merely by some
physical property of A alone being equal to some property of B alone, then if we had
A in contact with B, and B with C, each in a state of equilibrium, and, removing B by
mechanical means, moved A into direct contact with C but with such ideal constraint
applied to the matter in bulk that chemical action is prevented, the physical state of
each of these latter bodies would become changed, involving the performance of
mechanical work ; and a self-acting cycle could be designed by which we might thus
obtain an unlimited quantity of work, that is, so long as there remained any diffused
molecular energy to be converted. Hence in equilibrium there must be a property,
namely the temperature, of each individual body in the field that has the same value
for all of them: although of course this does not prevent us from imagining a
partition or constraint, nearly adiathermanous, across which such equilibrium would