wave. The researches of MM. BerrHetot and VIEILLE, and those of MM. Matiarp
and Lx CHarTetter, on the pressures registered in an explosion of gases, have led
these investigators to the conclusion that the specific heat of steam rapidly rises
with the temperature. The deficiency of “ available” pressure, which Bunsen first
observed in the explosion of gases and attributed to incomplete combustion, they
consider to be due to an increase of specific heat. Such an increase in the specific
heat of steam with rise of temperature would explain the divergence between the
observed and calculated rates of explosion of hydrogen with oxygen, and with nitrous
oxide. And conversely, it appears to me that the results of the French experi-
menters would be equally well explained by the temporary dissociation of steam in
their explosions.

One fact appears, at first sight, to be opposed to the hypothesis of incomplete
combustion. The addition of oxygen, one of the products of the dissociation of
steam, retards the explosion of electrolytic gas more than the addition of an equal
volume of nitrogen—an inert gas. Wunrrz found, in the case of phosphoric chloride,
that the amount of dissociation was greater when the chloride was volatilised in air
—an inert gas, than when it was volatilised in the presence of the lower chloride—
one of the products of its decomposition. Arguing from this observation, one might
have expected that excess of oxygen would tend to hinder dissociation, and therefore,
if the combustion were really incomplete, that the rate should be faster when oxygen
was used as a diluent instead of nitrogen. But the condition of equilibrium under
which Wurtz determined the vapour density of phosphoric chloride is not the
condition of the wave-front of an explosion. If we imagine in the wave-front a
molecule A dashing against a molecule B with such extreme velocity that the com-