rated a breaking up of the column would supervene, and its substance would scatter
itself in rolling masses among the surrounding air; and the two commingling would
ascend gradually, and at the same time the pressure of the surrounding air would
communicate itself to the region where the base of the column had been.

But now, on the other hand, if the mass of air around the central buoyant column
be whirling, it will keep itself out by the centrifugal tendency accompanying its own
rapid revolution, and so will not press in upon and break up that central column of
air of diminished pressure, and thus the abatement of pressure at the foot of the
column will be maintained and will become further intensified.

To Reprrexp is due much credit for his able and long-sustained labours in collect-
ing and correlating observed facts as to cyclones and the smaller kinds of whirlwinds.
He gathered and published* a very interesting collection of accounts of violent
columnar whirlwinds which formed themselves over large fires of circular masses of
brushwood, the flame and smoke in each case ascending as a lofty rotating column ;
and this has had part in suggesting to me some elements in the theoretical considera-
tions here briefly sketched out. In his remarks on these whirlwinds he emphatically
brought into contrast the distinction between the flames and smoke ascending with-
out whirling motion from hot furnaces and various ordinary fires, on the one hand,
and, on the other hand, the revolving columns of flame and smoke often met with in
those great fires of brushwood in the open air. By his various researches into the
actions and effects of great storms, Reprietp contributed more, perhaps, than any
other man to the advancement of observationally-derived knowledge of their cyclonic
character and features.