formerly for collecting the rays proceeding from the prisms. The size of the white
surface on which the shadows are received has been reduced to 1} inch square, and the
observations now recorded were made from a distance of 4 feet from it. This allows the
image of the whole of the patch, when viewed direct, to fall on the middle of the yellow
spot of the eye, which occupies a central position in the retina, and has an approximate
angular aperture of from 6° to 8°. As the absorption of the yellow spot diminishes
towards its boundary, it follows that, within certain limits, the smaller the patch that
is viewed the greater will be the loss of luminosity in that part of the spectrum where
the absorption takes place. From observations made in the manner shortly to be
described, it was found that, for our eyes, there was no sensible difference in the
results when the two shadows fell on the white square of 14-inch side, or a square of
l-inch side, but that, if the side were increased to 2 inches, the measures differed
slightly but unmistakably. This will account for the fact that the original luminosity
curve slightly differs from that now recorded for the centre of the eye, as part of the
image of the larger patch must have fallen on the less absorbing part of the yellow
spot. It is not quite apparent why the eye should not distinguish between the
differing luminosities of the different parts of the shadows, but it is probable that the
average luminosity was observed.

Table I., Col. IV., gives the observed measurements, and fig. 33 gives the curve A
plotted from them.

Equalisation of the luminosities of the coloured and white shadows was effected by
opening and closing the rotating sectors (which were described in the former paper)
in the white beam of light, and confirmation of the measurement was obtained by