
The results of the first experiments* on air effected in the differential calorimeter,
were to ascribe to it a somewhat higher specific heat than subsequent experiments
have revealed. The air in these experiments was compressed in contact with oil, and
hence moisture and impurities in the air are probably the source of difference. These
experiments, too, appeared to indicate invariability of the specific heat over a con-
siderable range of pressure. Subsequent experiments, which from the very fact of the
existence of the discrepancy have been multiplied in number, disprove this result.
There is an undoubted diminution of the specific heat with decreasing pressure or
density. A plausible explanation of the first result exists in the very certain presence
of moisture in the gas, taken in conjunction with the course of procedure adopted.

The lower pressures were obtained in fact by releasing a certain quantity of the gas
between the first and second series of experiments. Now if moisture be present, the
effect of this procedure is to concentrate the impurity at the lower pressure, for on
the moment of release there is an intense chilling of the vessel, which will have the
effect of precipitating any moisture in suspension in the gas. A small thing will con-
ceal the decrement of thermal capacity, as will be judged from the succeeding experi-
ments. I may point out here that over and above the quantity of moisture (calculated
to besome 2 milligrammes) necessary to saturate the volume of 160 Â¢.c. of air at the
normal temperature, #,, the effect of moisture is to cause very serious error. Water,
in the form of a liquid, within the sphere must, in fact, be conceived as adding its
latent heat of vaporisation to intensify the error. For every milligramme of water
evaporating within, there will be thrown down externally a corresponding milligramme
of steam. I have already described the results of observations which showed that even