In our set-up, where all of the inputs are recent NWP forecasts (and therefore similarly skilful), 1
we saw negligible difference in using a weighted averaging approach, but in situations where : s
more diverse forecast types are in use, it may prove beneficial to assign weightings according : =
to forecast skill. A dynamic weighting approach also enables individual models to be updated 18

without jeopardizing the overall post-processed output, as the contribution of the new or updated
model will be minimal until it is error profile is well understood. The QRF algorithm provides
a convenient means by which skill can be estimated ahead of time, in the form of out-of-bag
metrics. For example, we showed earlier the out-of-bag coverage of our trained QRF (figure 3).
Metrics such as the CRPS, logarithmic score, and Kullbackâ€”Leibler divergence would provide
good comparisons of forecast skill on which to base quantile averaging weight, although their
calculation would add some additional processing time. Yao et al. [40] provide more detail about
using such metrics for weighted model stacking, and in fact these weights can be optimized as an
additional supervised learning problem [33].

The overall strategy for combining forecasts is also open to further research. Because it retains
the inter-model variance, BMA may be considered to provide a better representation of extreme
outcomes at the expense of well-calibrated coverage (at least in set-ups where each input forecast
is already well-calibrated, which is likely to become the norm). We also think that the output of
BMA would be difficult to make use of in practice when applied across all lead times as in our
framework, because of the discrepancy in the number of models available at each time step, and
therefore the spurious inconsistency of the inter-model variance across the forecast range. Still,
applications where capturing extremes is a priority may wish to investigate further. For general
purposes, we are satisfied with our time-consistent and calibration-preserving quantile averaging
approach.