workflow for earthquake hazard and risk assessment [49]. Starting with a set of the existing codes,
SW4 (a fourth order, three-dimensional seismic wave propagation model), NEVADA (a nonlinear,
finite displacement program for building earthquake response) and ESSI (nonlinear finite-element
program for coupled soil-structure interaction), EQSIM is building an end-to-end capability to
simulate from the fault rupture to surface ground motions (earthquake hazard) and ultimately
to infrastructure response (earthquake risk). The ultimate goal of the EQSIM development is
to remove computational limitations as a barrier to scientific exploration and understanding of
earthquake phenomenology, as well as to practical earthquake hazard and risk assessments.

Traditional earthquake hazard and risk assessments for critical facilities have relied on
empirically based approaches that use historical earthquake ground motions from many different
locations to estimate future earthquake ground motions at a specific site of interest. Given the
fact that ground motions for a particular site are strongly influenced by the physics of the
specific earthquake processes including the fault rupture mechanics, seismic wave propagation
through a heterogeneous medium and site response at the location of a particular facility,
earthquake ground motions are very complex with significant spatial variation in both frequency
content and amplitude. The homogenization of many disparate records in traditional empirically
based ground motion estimates cannot fully capture the complex site-specificity of ground
motion. Over the past decade, interest in using advanced simulations to characterize earthquake
ground motions and infrastructure response has accelerated significantly. However, the extreme
computational demands required to execute hazard and risk simulations at regional scale have
been prohibitive. A fundamental objective is to advance regional-scale ground motion simulation
capabilities from the historical computationally limited frequency range of up to 2Hz, to the
frequency range of interest for a breadth of engineered infrastructure of up to 10 Hz. A second
fundamental objective is to implement an HPC framework and workflow that directly couples