effectively self-induced through ‘sticking’ of the dynamics.

Having already noted that the Dean’s problem is NP-complete, one might
reasonably ask how one knows much about the properties of these systems. One
answer is through computer simulation and another is through rather subtle
mathematics and physical interpretation. Also, an important point in these
developments is that, in physics, one is normally interested in typical systems and
their statistical properties, rather than the ‘worst case’, and the NP-hard label
strictly applies to the worst-case problem. One expects the properties of a ‘good’
large many-body system to depend on the statistical distribution from which
its elements are drawn, rather than the specific instances that result. This does
not, however, mean that the typical case problem is trivial—indeed, the situation
is very much the contrary, both technically and conceptually—and, in fact, the
insight gained from typical case study has been very influential in explaining
several intriguing empirical features found in several optimization problems and
in predicting others, as well as in stimulating the development of new powerful
techniques applicable even for specific (non-averaged) instances of hard problems.
Typical behaviour study enables a powerful (and novel) set of tools to be applied
and often allows the determination of the value of the best achievable average
cost without the need of an actual algorithm to achieve it in specific cases.

The detailed theoretical methodologies devised to study spin glasses are beyond
the scope of this article; the reader is referred instead to books such as Mézard
et al. (1987), Young (1997) and de Dominicis & Giardina (2006). It is, however,
appropriate to mention that they have involved the introduction of unusual (and,