motion of edge dislocations through a lattice of particles. The study addressed both conceptual
and practical aspects of the application of VO operators to particle dynamics. Of particular,
relevance is the use of the VO Riemann-Liouville operator to capture the behaviour of highly
nonlinear systems with possible discontinuities. More specifically, we showed that an apparently
unsettling property of the RL operator, that is the non-vanishing derivative of a constant
when using a finite lower terminal of integration, can have very useful implications to model
system discontinuities and nonlinearities. A notable characteristic of the governing equations
based on VO operators is the resulting evolutionary nature. In other terms, VO operators
offer the possibility to update their order as a function of either dependent or independent
variables, resulting in governing equations that can evolve in real time from linear to nonlinear
without requiring modifications to the fundamental governing equations. Probably even more
remarkable, and certainly in stark contrast with a more traditional approach to the analysis of
nonlinear dynamical systems, is the fact that VO governing equations do not require a priori
assumptions on the physical location of elements undergoing the nonlinear behaviour. In other
terms, the nonlinear behaviour naturally emerges, propagates, and annihilates based on the
instantaneous response of the system and of the individual particles. In conclusion, the results
presented in this study illustrated some unique features of VO-FC for the modelling of nonlinear
dynamical systems with evolving discontinuities and suggested that this mathematical tool could
play a critical role in the development of advanced simulation techniques for complex nonlinear
dynamical systems.

Data accessibility. All the necessary data and information required to reproduce the results are available in the
paper.

Authorsâ€™ contributions. All authors have contributed equally to this study.