to detect and characterize signal nonlinearities [2]. The generalization of BS based on Fourier
transform to wavelets can be seen as a generalization of the Fourier analysis [4] by adding time
resolution (in a more fundamental way than is permitted by the short-time Fourier transform
(STFT)). Using bispectral analysis to obtain the time-dependent biphase/biamplitude estimate
based on STFT means using a window of constant length. The optimal window length depends,
however, on the frequency being studied. The effective length of the window used for each
frequency can be varied by applying the CWT. With broader frequency content where natural
frequencies lie, the STFT is not sufficient for good time and phase/ frequency localization and the
CWT needs to be applied [5]. Using WBS, intermittent phase couplings can be detected, whereas
Fourier-based BS averages out most of the time relevant information. If there is a brief episode
of quadratic phase coupling (QPC), the Fourier-based BS method cannot detect it from the signal
due to the large time window used. On the contrary, the WBS will detect it, down to a certain
minimum duration; thus the WBS allows intermittent couplings to be detected [4,5]. In fact, WBS
represents a significant improvement in the time resolution of the BS.

To date there has been some notable uses of WBS, yet not at the level of the BS alone and even
less when compared to the prolific use of the CWT. However, there are some key areas where
WBS analysis has made some clear inroads. In particular, WBS has been applied in problems
of machine monitoring [6,7] and fault diagnosis [8,9], wind and wave analysis [1,10,11], filter
optimization [12], emitter recognition [13], and health-related areas, such as neuroscience [14],
mental stress detection [15], wheeze analysis [16,17] and electroencephalogram (EEG)-based tonic
cold pain characterization [18]. The main thrust of this paper is to exemplify and discuss the
combinatory potential of WBS in the analysis of non-Gaussian, nonlinear and non-stationary

