we have confirmed the theoretical paradigm that emerged in the 1980s, which
postulated that galaxies and clusters owe their existence to the gravitational
clumping of a dominant dark matter density field. We can trace this dark matter
around galaxies in statistically well-controlled samples and see how it differs in
its extent and shape in various environments.

(c) Microlensing

Einstein (1936) was not convinced that gravitational lensing would yield
observable returns because the probability that two stars are sufficiently well
aligned so that one magnifies the other is very low. But with panoramic imaging
cameras, many tens of millions of stars can be monitored in the Milky Way.
Together with the fact that there can be relative motion between the source
and the lens, there is still the likelihood of observing an effect. Microlensing
a term introduced by Paczynskiâ€”generally refers to the case where either the
source alone or both the source and the lens are unresolved. Consequently, the
deflection and distortion of light from the background source cannot be seen.
The key signature is a temporal brightening of the combined signal from the
source plus lens as the one passes in front of the other. The time scale of the
brightening can be anything from seconds to years, and the observed light curve
gives information on the lens mass, the relative distances and the motion of the
lensing object (assuming the background object is stationary). As microlensing
is a transient phenomenon, an effective survey strategy is to monitor a dense
star field repeatedly, searching for that rare occasion when an individual star
increases its brightness. Of course, complicating such searches is the fact that