asic mechanisms that underlie life on a hierarchy of scales, from proteins to cells to
issues, organs and systems (see Zhang et al. 2005a; Cheng et al. 2007). Here,
geometry plays a primary role in determining the behaviour of living components
and their interactions within living assemblies, at all scales. Moreover, their
geometric configuration cannot be considered as given a priori; in general, it has to
ye computed concurrently, taking into account chemical, electrical and mechanical
interactions. These novel application domains are characterized by a huge size of
computer models. In particular, novel bioengineering approaches to the challenging
VPH project require a strict integration of terascale geometric data, multiphysics
simulation, concurrency-based adaptive behaviour and multiscale functional
specialization. The massive data size is due to several factors. First of all,
simulations require cellular decompositions, instead of more compact boundary
representations. This fact alone accounts for one order of magnitude increase in
model size. Also, the common factoring of repeated substructures, exploited to a
great extent by large-scale hierarchical models in computer graphics, cannot be
benefited from when dealing with large deformations, thus producing an increase of
several orders of magnitude in the model size. Finally, consider the sheer number
and complexity of components: there are thousands of atoms in a protein, several
thousand proteins in a cell, and so on.

Consequently, computational modelling of human biosystems has to face great
challenges. Our vision is that description languages are not sufficient, and that
totally new progressive and adaptive methods for terascale geometric modelling are
needed, combined with novel adaptive methods for multiphysics and multiscale
simulation, working on parallel and distributed supercomputers. Both symbolic and