direction of the magnetization may occur at critical values which depend on the orientation
of the ellipsoidal particle in the field. The critical field (which corresponds roughly to a
value of H,) may have a value as high as (N,â€”WN,) J). The limiting value, for elongated
particles (N,->0), is 2mJ,, corresponding, for particles of iron (J) = 1700) dispersed in a
non-ferromagnetic matrix, to a coercivity value of many thousands. This case is an extreme
one, but even for a nearly spherical particle with a dimensional ratio as low as 1-1 the
coefficient in place of 27 is approximately 0-47, which still corresponds to a coercivity of
several hundreds. In view of the interesting possibilities suggested by such rough estimates
of orders of magnitude, it seemed desirable to carry out detailed calculations of the depend-
ence on field of the resolved magnetization of single domain ellipsoidal particles, and also
on the behaviour of an assembly of such particles with random orientation. The results of
these calculations are presented in this paper. The particles are idealized as ellipsoidal in
order to make the mathematical treatment tractable. There is, in fact, no other form
offering a practical possibility of combining generality with numerical precision. Uniform
magnetization is in general possible only for bodies bounded by surfaces of the second degree.
Only in that case can a demagnetization factor be uniquely defined, and the demagnetization
relations be given ina relatively simple form which is independent of the magnetic character-
istics of the material. Any apparent artificiality is mitigated by the fact that the general
ellipsoidal form covers, as an approximation, almost the whole variety of possible shapes for
the physical particles, or segregates, which are likely to be of physical interest.

Detailed calculations have been made for particles in the form of spheroids, prolate and
oblate. The range of particle shapes covered in this way is from a plate or disk at one extreme
to a thin rod or needle at the other. No useful purpose would be served by carrying out the
