
A similar but more marked variation of sign with distance or magnitude occurs also
among the complex field-changes, many of which are accompanied by a discharge to
earth. The result of such a discharge will be in effect to remove charges of both signs
to earth. The higher proportion of negative field-changes at great distances indicate that
frequently the positive charge removed was at the greater height. The actual value of
the reversal distance will depend on the relative magnitudes of the two charges.

We turn next to the consideration of the effects of very close discharges. While the
number of field-changes observed is rather low, yet they represent the closest flashes
from a number of storms, and it would seem to be established that the proportion of
negative field-changes is considerably greater for flashes within 3 km. of the observer
than for flashes at slightly greater distances. The fact that a similar effect occurs
among both simple and complex field-changes strengthens belief in its reality. Again,
the very large field-changes, those greater than 15,000 V/m., also show a considerably
higher proportion of negative field-changes than the field-changes in the range 5000
15,000 V/m., although the effect is not so well marked as when variation with distance
is considered. (By no means all of the field-changes greater than 15,000 V/m. were
within 3 km.) There is one obvious effect tending to diminish the proportion of positive
field-changes when we select very close discharges. It has been shown that the frequent
type of discharge in the cloud which causes a positive field-change at small distances
occurs usually at a considerable height from the ground. When we consider discharges
within 3 km. measured distance we are in effect only considering discharges which
penetrate within a hemisphere of 3 km. radius and are clearly excluding some dis-
charges which occur in the cloud above the hemisphere while including all flashes