function F(R) remains unknown. A potential energy of the rather arbitrarily chosen
form bR-”, where b and rare two constants, has generally been added to the potential
energy of the electrostatic force. Later investigations by LENNARD-JONES and TAYLOR
(1925) and the present author (WASASTJERNA 1932 d) are definitely in favour of the
conception that the potential energy of the repulsive force can be represented by an
inverse power law only over a very small range of R, and outside this range the
character of the function must be modified. A few years ago Born and MayER (1932)
also, in an interesting paper on compressibility, replaced the inverse power by an
exponential function. Its introduction was suggested by the exponential falling off
of the wave function at large distances, and SLaTerR’s and Kirxwoon’s calculations of
the repulsive force between two helium atoms. The present author has shown
(WASASTJERNA 1932 d) that an exponential falling off of the repulsive force can be
deduced from experimental facts. If one desires empirically to attain a more thorough
knowledge of the mutual potential energy of atoms and ions, the problem must,
however, be attacked on a much broader front than hitherto has been the case.

2, THE GENERAL PROPERTIES OF THE POTENTIAL FUNCTIONS

We consider a lattice, consisting of an equal number of positive ions 7 and negative
ions k. The potential energy of a gram-molecule may be denoted as PER), The
electrostatic contribution to the potential energy of the lattice is indicated by the
expression — Nez*e?R~!, where N is AvoGapro’s number, ¢ is MADELUNG’s constant,
which depends on the structure of the lattice, z the ionic charge, expressed in ele-
mentary units, and e the charge of an electron. R is the distance between nearest
neighbours in the lattice. At equilibrium R= R,. As the product cz? often occurs