ON OPTICAL ROTATORY DISPERSION. 255

and invert-sugar gave, on the other hand, a very exact compensation (‘ Ann. Chim.
Phys.,’ 1844, vol. 10, p. 35). After Bror’s death the law of inverse squares was generally
abandoned, even as a first approximation. The result was most unfortunate, since the
experimenters who proved the inaccuracy of Bior’s formula did not possess the
mathematical skill that was required to replace it by another formula that was more
exact. There can be little doubt that, as more exact methods of measurement were
developed, Bror himself would have investigated the deviations from this law, and might
well have discovered the small but important correction which Drupe introduced
many years later when he wrote « = k/(\”—),*) instead of « = k/)’.

This discovery was extremely likely in view of the fact that, as early as 1817, Bror,
in applying the law of inverse squares to the rotatory power of quartz, had used a
graphical method in which virtually the reciprocal of the rotatory power was plotted
against the square of the wave-length* (‘Mém. Acad, Sci.,’ 1817, vol. 2, plate 3 facing
p- 136). This device of plotting 1/a against \* is, however, the simplest method of
checking the validity of Drupr’s formula, and has been used extensively in recent years
as a convenient test for this purpose (Lowry and Dickson, * Trans. Chem. Soc.,’ 1913,
vol. 103, p. 1075; Lowry and Asram, ‘ Trans. Faraday Soc.,’ 1914, vol. 10, p. 104;
compare also FRANKLAND and Garner, ‘ Trans. Chem. Soc.,’ 1919, vol. 15, p. ‘640,
footnote, and Rupe and AkERMANN, ‘ Ann. der Chem.,’ 1920, vol. 420, p. 12). The
mere plotting out on Bior’s original plan of a series of accurate experimental data
would therefore have disclosed to him both the existence and the magnitude of Drupr’s
correction. 4