importance in any discussion of the relation of spectra to the constitution of the
atom.

It has been the custom to record the intensities of spectrum lines on an arbitrary
scale, ranging generally from 10 for the strongest lines to 1 or 0 for the weakest.
The intensities have usually been assigned purely at the discretion of the observer,
and without much regard to the conditions of observation, whether visual or
photographic. In any case, the apparent intensities are affected by the optical
system by means of which the spectrum is produced, and whereas in visual
observations the sensitiveness of the eye to different wave-lengths should be taken
into account, matters are even more complicated in the case of photographs of spectra,
where the sensibility of the photographic plate varies very considerably with the
wave-length in a manner which is not precisely defined, and which appears in fact to
be toa great extent irregular. These remarks apply to the visible and ultra-violet
regions of the spectrum. Measurements in the infra-red are usually carried out with
the thermopile or bolometer, and in this case quantitative measurements of the
intensities of lines are obtained. It is, however, the visible and the less refrangible
part of the ultra-violet spectrum in which accurate measurements of intensity, on a
precise and quantitative basis, are perhaps most urgently needed at the present time.
For example, in the case of celestial spectra, the problem of the relative intensities
of lines has become of considerable importance, and is probably, at present, the
greatest obstacle in the direction of the further elucidation of the phenomena which
occur in new stars, In these spectra, observations are of necessity limited to the
visible and the less refrangible ultra-violet regions.
