mentally different from that produced by the arc. The latter is marked by the
predominance of groups of lines forming series associated with one another, and by
lines related to these series in definite ways. In the former very few series have been
discovered, the lines are very much more numerous, and the great majority are weak.
Both kinds vary very much according to the way in which they are produced, and
this is specially the case with spectra produced by the spark. Even when they are
produced by similar methods by different observers—as, for instance, by Eper and
Vaenta, and by Exner and Hascurk—there will be found a large number in one
not included in the other and vice versd. It is even questionable whether it is
possible to draw a distinct and definite line of demarcation between the two, e.g., in
the cases of Cu and Ba, to take two instances ; the are spectra—with very numerous
lines—in many respects have analogies with those of the spark. But very little is
known as to the structure of the latter, beyond the fact that in some of them sets of
lines with the same frequency differences are met with. The present communication is
an attempt to throw some light on this question.

The material at disposal is so vast that it is necessary to limit the discussion to a
few elements, and even in them to restrict it to certain relations only. The elements
selected are silver and gold. It had originally been intended to include also copper
and barium as illustrating the transition from one to the other kind of spectra. But
their inclusion would have rendered the present communication unduly long, whilst
their omission enables us to confine the discussion to the elaboration of a single
principle. The reason for the selection is that the author has had occasion to study
with special care for other purposes the spectra of Ag and Ba, whilst those of Au and
Cu—belonging to the same group as Ag—were specially investigated to see if the