within reason, to any assumed visibility curve by choosing suitable values for the
luminosity factors of the primaries. This is easily done in a few trials by successive
approximation, and values for Lp: Lg:Ly, are obtained in the process which give
an exact luminosity summation to the assumed visibility curve. But these luminosity
factors may be quite fictitious, and may not represent the proportions by luminosity,
in which the three primaries have to be combined to match white. â€˜This is especially

the case with the blue primary. Owing to the relatively low luminosity of this primary
as compared with the red and green, and the manner in which the positive and negative
values of these two primaries appear in the blue and violet region of the spectrum, a
small error, either in the trichromatic coefficients in this neighbourhood, or in the
assumed visibility curve in the neighbourhood, may make a large difference in the value
of Ly which is required to give the desired luminosity summation. In fact, errors in
the trichromatic coefficients in the blue and violet region, which would be sub-limenal
as regards colour discrimination, may produce large errors in the luminosity factor to
be attributed to the blue primary, and would give distribution curves which were quite
unreliable for computations involving stimuli which have localised concentrations of
energy in different parts of the spectrum. Thus it is no proof of the accuracy of a set
of spectral distribution curves that luminosity factors can be found which give a
luminosity summation approximately or even identically fitting the normal visibility
curve. This only means that they will give correct results for the white light on which
they are based by definition of units, or for lights not differing too much from this in
spectral energy distribution. Additional criteria, based on the quantitative relations
of stimuli which are either monochromatic or at least of high colorimetric saturation,
must be fulfilled. The comparison of the values of Ly: Le: Ly; which are required