whether the theory is itself mathematically correct. The present theory being exact,
within certain defined limits, our purpose in this chapter is to consider how far the
hypotheses underlying the analysis are well founded. The general validity of the
foundations of the kinetic theory is attested in many ways, one of the most striking
being the independence of viscosity and pressure in a gas. This law, when first
discovered by MAXWELL, seemed so improbable that it gave a great stimulus to
experimental research on gases, and the constancy of «, when T is kept constant, has
been verified over a range of pressure extending from a few millimetres of mercury up
© to more than one atmosphere. WaArpsurG and von Baso have found that, in the case
of carbon dioxide, the law begins to fail when the pressure becomes so great as 30 to
120 atmospheres, « rising appreciably. In very rarefied gases, on the other hand, the
viscosity falls below the value appropriate to the existing temperature. This must be
referred to the failure of the postulates of our theory to represent the facts in these
extreme cases, the molecules becoming too few for our statistical method to apply, on
the one hand, while on the other our assumption that the molecular paths are
; rectilinear for the major part of the time, and our neglect of multiple encounters,
become illegitimate.

The Variation of Viscosity with Temperature.*

§ 12 (B) Over a wide range of pressure and temperature, undoubtedly, the general
postulates of our theory are true for actual gases. We cannot discover directly,
however, the nature of the molecules or their mode of collision, and it is important,
therefore, to examine which molecular model yields formule most in accordance with
experimental data. For this purpose we naturally choose those properties which are