this junction has never been broken or repaired, and it has been carefully protected
from injury by such causes as unnecessarily high temperatures or contact with
furnace gases or other injurious substances. At the beginning of the research, and
frequently during its progress, this thermo-couple has been calibrated by using it to
determine the freezing-points of a series of standard pure metals. In these calibra-
tions the thermo-couple was used in the same small furnace, and with the same fire-
clay protectors, as were employed in taking the cooling-curves, and similar rates of
cooling were used. The temperature-E.M.F. curves obtained from these calibrations
could therefore be applied direct to the readings of the cooling-curves without the
introduction of any corrections. At the conclusion of the research the thermo-couple
gave readings which agreed with the original calibration within 1Â° C.

The use of very slow cooling, and the fact that the alloys were allowed to solidify
in a perfectly undisturbed manner, would seem to involve the risk that the
observations might be vitiated by errors due to surfusion. Surfusion phenomena can,
however, be detected readily with the apparatus used in this work, by the occurrence
of a rise of temperature following the first arrest of cooling ; although small rises of
temperature of this nature were frequently observed, the large mass of alloy used,
and the slow rate of cooling, always resulted in a prolonged arrest at a definite
maximum temperature, and the manner in which the observed points fall upon
smooth curves or upon straight lines shows that errors from surfusion have been
avoided.

In the study of the cooling-curves, the cooling of the same ingot has in many cases
been repeated three and even four times in order to eliminate the possibility of