ion hopping sites. Measurements gave a Lit conductivity of 3.6 x 10-> Scemâ„¢1, which increased
further by one order of magnitude upon perfluorination of the aryl groups in the tetraarylborate
network (a1; =2.7 x 10-4 S.cm7!). Installation of electron-withdrawing fluorine atoms on the aryl
rings was thought to weaken the borate-Li* interaction and thus encourage Lit mobility through
the electrolyte. As expected, immobilization of the anions within the framework afforded strong
single-ion conducting character with a high Li+ transference number (ti; = 0.9). Interestingly,
altering synthetic conditions afforded a permanently porous fluorinated tetraarylborate material
(BET surface area = 480m? g) that exhibited 10-fold lower conductivity than its dense-phase
congener. Although this difference in conductivity between the porous and dense phase is
consistent with the need for closely packed hopping sites, the activation energies of the two
phases were identical, 0.25eV. The phase-independent activation energy data may point to
dominating surface conduction pathways as proposed by the authors. However, the distinct
differences in conductivity as a function of phase density and the fact that the identities of
the hopping sites do remain constant in both phases highlights the importance of hopping site
density on ionic conductivity. Most tellingly, it emphasizes that three-dimensionally connected
pores become detrimental to ion transport beyond a certain diameter.


Another example of anionic borates being featured in ionically conductive MOFs and COFs
was a spiroborate-based COF synthesized by base-promoted transesterification of diols and
trimethylborate using LiOH as the base. The latter served the roles of both deprotonating the diol
during the transesterification and providing the Lit ions for the electrolyte [71], thus allowing
a one-pot synthesis of a Lit-loaded solid electrolyte (figure 4). Incorporating the spiroborate
structure into the COF was motivated by previous reports of Li borate salts used as Lit
electrolytes [72]. The spiroborate COF/polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) formulation exhibited