348 PRINCIPAL HENRY A, MIERS AND MISS FLORENCE ISAAC ON THE

figure. After the index had fallen to 1:433260 at 28°, another, much denser, shower
occurred at this temperature quite suddenly, the temperature rising immediately to
32°. The crystals were now found to have been transformed, and under the
microscope no B-crystals were to be seen, but only long a-needles having an angle of
43° and extinction parallel to the oblique end. The shower of «-crystals rendered
the solution quite opaque and solid, and no further readings were possible. At 25°
therefore the solution apparently passed into the labile state for the modification £.
At this temperature a shower of §-crystals appears, and the figure shows the
concentration to fall somewhat and approach the solubility curve for 8. At 28° the
solution is within 12° of the B-solubility curve, and here the much denser shower of
a-crystals takes place, owing to the fact that although the solution is now metastable
with regard to 8 it is still labile with regard to a This second shower causes the
concentration to fall still further, and had not the density of the shower rendered the
whole solution almost solid and prevented further readings for the index, it would
doubtless have been possible to trace the index-temperature curve down to the point
where it touches the solubility curve for a The shower of B-crystals in this
experiment was not nearly so dense as the a-shower, but this is probably due to the
positions of the solubility curves for « and 8, which show that at any given
temperature a supersaturated solution is much more strongly supersaturated with
respect to # than with respect to B.

In another solution (experiment 26) the concentration of the acid was again
approximately 88 per cent., as in the first experiment. It was also heated to 70° and