
Showers of «-crystals were not at all general, but were obtained more frequently in
tubes containing from 86 per cent. to 88 per cent. of acid than in tubes of higher
concentrations, and usually when a solution in any tube first crystallised as « it
continued to do so again and again, even though heated several times in boiling
water for various lengths of time to dissolve the crystals. This suggests that a
particular modification may exist even in the liquid state and that it is ready to
erystallise as soon as the labile temperature is reached. Similarly, if a tube had first
erystallised in a B-shower, it usually continued to give B-showers when heated again
to dissolve the crystals and then recooled. The above statement does not invariably
hold good, however, for occasionally a tube was found to give both a- and B-showers
in turn after successive heatings and coolings. Friction generally has a special
effect in bringing down £-showers, in fact 8 appears to be far the most usual
modification to crystallise in the tubes. It was found that when only a few glass
fragments were enclosed in the tubes to produce friction the B-showers did not
usually occur until the solutions had passed into the labile state by about 8° of
temperature and, therefore, crossed the supersolubility curve defined by the experi-
ments on refractive indices. If, however, a few fragments of some heavier material
such as corundum or tinstone were enclosed in the tubes to produce the friction, the
B-showers were found to occur as soon as the solution had reached the labile
temperature. Showers of y-crystals usually occurred in tubes containing glass
fragments when the solutions have cooled below the labile temperature for « and B
without crystallising. As has been mentioned previously, when y-crystals are
slightly agitated they at once transform to 8, The same was found with the
y-crystals in the tubes, for if they are shaken in the solution they at once transform