being highly concerned about ‘pollution,’ with one-third of
respondents (33%) offering it in response to an open-ended
question soliciting the ‘three most important environmental
matters’ facing the ocean. By comparison, only 4% offered
‘climate change’ as a response, and ocean acidification—
which many scientists see as a leading threat to marine
species worldwide [5,27,28]—received the lowest knowledge
self-ratings across all impacts surveyed. Moreover, when
estimating the point in time at which climate change impacts
would occur, just 16% of respondents judged ocean acidifica-
tion’s threat to fish and other marine species as ‘already
apparent’ (compared with 54% for increases in extreme
weather). In fact, more respondents (19%) selected ‘don’t
know’ or did not respond when asked if and when ocean
acidification would threaten marine species; no other climate
impact engendered as much uncertainty.

In related work Chilvers et al. analysed responses from a
survey of m=1001 UK residents [24], which similarly
suggests that the public is less attuned than are scientists to
the role of climate change and ocean acidification in ocean
health matters. When prompted for ‘the most important
environmental issues’ that come to mind when thinking
about the ocean, ‘pollution’ was again offered by a sizable
portion of respondents (21%), surpassed only by ‘coastal ero-