well worth investigation to determine whether the gemmules will go on budding in
the soil or on root-hairs. It may, perhaps, be permitted to make another suggestion
here. Even if, as is usually accepted, the protoplasm of the root-hairs of plants
cultivated in nutritive solutions—and, if so, presumably of plants in soil—is confined
to the interior of the cell-walls, these cell-walls are very thin and delicate. There
are facts which seem to support the view that the germinal hypha starts its course at
the root-hairs for this reason, and it is not impossible that the gemmules will only
germinate on the root-hairs of the host-plants. At any rate, I never find them
elsewhere.

It is a well-known and very popular view that the Leguminose enrich the soil in
nitrogenous substances. There is no doubt that the plants of this natural order
contain abundance of nitrogenous substances, and it is a fact that the roots of our
ordinary field and garden Papilionacese go deep, and thus bring up nitrogenous
compounds from below to enrich the surface soil when the plants are turned into
it by the spade or plough. It is also unquestionable that the root-tubercles which
have been described above are extraordinarily rich in nitrogenous substauces. Apart
from the evidence already given, analyses of the tubercles of the Lupin show an
enormous excess of proteids as compared with the other parts of the roots,* and, since
these tubercles are aptt to be on the upper portions of the root, it is not improbable
that these circumstances have contributed to the views so favourable among agricul-
turists. Of course there may be more in this matter than meets the eye, if future
investigations demonstrate that the gemmules can live as saprophytes or ferment-
organisms in the soil outside the plant.
