rather than others. To date, we sorely lack sufficient and
solid knowledge to answer these important questions.

(e) The application of antimicrobial peptides should be
informed by ecology and evolutio

Given the immense diversity of arthropods, especially the
insects, we expect a high diversity of AMPs to exist in this
group [9,17]. Finding new AMPs and studying their proper-
ties in arthropods thus would hold promise, and could
ameliorate the dearth of potent new antibiotics that currently
are under development in the biomedical industry [118]. In
fact, the diversity of arthropod AMPs is also reflected in the
diversity of different organisms that can be targeted, which
includes bacteria such as medically relevant Enterococcus fae-
cium, S. aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter baumanii,
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli and Enterobacter
species (ESKAPE bacteria), viruses, a number of protists,
fungi, and even cancer cells [119]. This search is currently
underway and represents an exciting research field [9].
Whereas the need for new drugs is widely recognized,
there are serious risks to consider. As with any other drug,
bacterial resistance against single AMPs evolves in vitro
({105], see above), and AMP-resistant strains have already
been recovered from patients [104]. Some new antibiotics