space and time, an Internet of living things, a world in
which organisms act as transducers of biosphere change.

By completing the registry of all species by 2040, biodiver-
sity science would deliver the foundation needed to track and
forecast biotic change. Although this advance is within reach,
it will require biodiversity science to join those disciplines
that regard mega-science as everyday business. New struc-
tures, new alliances, and new leaders will be required to
propel this transition. There is a critical need for action.
More than half of all biodiversity hotspots have lost 90% of
their vegetation [134], and the remnant patches are impacted
by climate change. In fact, the least disturbed hotspot, the
California Floristic Province, recently experienced its most
severe drought in 1500 years [135]. Habitat fragmentation is
also increasing; 70% of global forests lie within 1 km of a
road [136]. These changes have lowered species abundances
[137] and have increased extinction rates [138]. Because a
sixth of all multi-cellular species may be extinct by the end
of this century [139], there is an urgent need to complete
the inventory of life and to use this information to track
shifts in species abundances and distributions. Without inter-
ventions enabled by such knowledge, it is certain that endless
forms most beautiful and most wonderful [140] will be lost. This
prospect is surely a call to arms.