ecosystem services a particular group or individual priori-
tizes and there are inevitable trade-offs between different
services [140].

There are a wide range of views on issues regarding the
socio-economics and ethics of private estate ownership and
driven grouse shooting in the UK, both within the research
community at large and among the authors here. Effective
communication and understanding between different groups
currently seems to be minimal. Studies suggesting that some
land managers believe they have access to ‘special’ knowledge
regarding moorland that others cannot comprehend [141] are
thus concerning. However, so too is the fact that conserva-
tionists often seem unable to make objective interpretations
of individual ecological management practices, such as
prescribed burning, independent of the wider moorland man-
agement context. There can often be a complex relationship
with managed fire even within a single organization. In our
own research, we have experienced managers in one region
not prepared to contemplate even a single research burn on a
bog, while those from the same organization but based an
hour up the road have actively sought us out to trial burning
on similar sites. Furthermore, RSPB research has shown the
value of prescribed fire as a tool to promote woodland expan-
sion at forest-moorland edges and to manage Capercaillie