navigation in which the target retinal position is main-
tained constant [106]. Recent detailed trajectory analyses
add amendments to this description [96]. For instance, even
though dragonflies can fly sideways and backwards, bio-
mechanical constraints only allow the dragonfly to fly at
maximum speed in the forward direction. As a result, the
dragonfly invariably reorients itself early in the predatory

flight, regardless of the interception strategy. Through analysing
hundreds of independent prey capture events, it was concluded
that the interception trajectories could resemble proportional
navigation just as well as many other guidance strategies such
as parallel navigation. In fact, the dragonfly appears simply to
align its body to the prey flight direction and keep the target
within an approximately 50Â° cone directly overhead [96]. This
interception strategy simplifies the task to two-dimensional
tracking in the zenith direction and the dragonfly must only
increase its altitude to achieve interception.

Prior to prey pursuits, Plathemus lydia dragonflies often per-
form a rapid head movement to centre the target in its dorsal
fovea [103]. It was proposed that such head movement, together
with some thorax translation, produces sufficient motion paral-
lax for target distance estimation [103,107]. However, the fact
that some pursuits were not preceded by significant head move-