the deep evolutionary conservation that GRN parts have to
display in order to be considered a kernel.

Aslightly more flexible approach is provided by the charac-
ter identity network (ChIN) concept [26]. Again, historical
continuity of character-defining GRN is key to its definition.
However, and unlike kernels, these do not have to be evolu-
tionary ancient (i.e. phylum or sub-phylum level for kernels,
down to species level for ChINs). Central to the applicability
of ChINs in discussing homology is the inherent modularity
of developmental systems. Different body parts and organs
develop, and are patterned, in a semi-autonomous fashion, a
fact known since the early days of experimental embryology
[27]. The division into discrete developmental sub-systems
allows for their individualized evolution, yet shared ChINs
underlying their formation in different organisms help us to
identify the resulting anatomical features as homologous.
By introducing ChINs, a historical continuity is inferred by
means of their repetitive re-deployment during the embryogen-
esis of each following generation, while modifying their output
results in varying character states across species [26]. Such
reasoning can help to disentangle conflicting results coming
from various lines of research, such as embryology versus
palaeontology, when trying to establish homologies between
morphological characters. This has been demonstrated in the