allowed to vary randomly and therefore increase and decrease
at any point in time, we assumed that healthcare-seeking
behaviour could only change in one direction over the course
of the outbreak. If we had allowed similar flexibility in the
way we modelled healthcare-seeking behaviour to the way
we modelled the changes in the transmission rate, it might
not have been possible to pinpoint these changes. The behav-
iour we found was consistent with observations that overall
attitudes towards health institutions improved during the
course of the epidemic. It helps explain the very sharp rise of
cases admitted to the ETC in July (which was stronger than
could be explained with a constant transmission rate), and it
aligns with the fact that the outbreak was eventually ended

Lofa County was the first region in Liberia to experience the
2013-2015 EVD outbreak in West Africa, and it was struck
severely. A rapid rise in cases over the summer of 2014 was
followed by a fall in cases towards the end of August 2014,
and control by the end of October. The behaviour of the epi-
demic in Lofa mirrors what has been observed across many
regions of West Africa, and a better understanding of this
behaviour can yield important lessons for investigating the
epidemic elsewhere. Here, we analysed the impact of differ-
ent clinical and community-based interventions that were
put in place at different times, in an attempt to pinpoint