
In birds, dispersal is often female-biased, and our results con-
firm this sex difference. We found that females often disperse
further than males, regardless whether a species is a coopera-
tive breeder or not. As ASR is male-biased in species with
female-biased dispersal, and in species with male-biased dis-
persal ASR tends to be female-biased (figure 1a), this result
suggests that dispersal is costly, as shown in several birds
species previously ([18], reviewed in [59]). That the biases in
ASR are likely a consequence of costs of dispersal is also sup-
ported by our finding that offspring sex ratio, although
slightly male-biased overall, does not predict ASR consistently
([36]; our study). Apart from the fact that dispersal costs may
be sex-specific in the first place [60,61], one reason for such
sex-biased costs for the further-dispersing sex may be due to,
for example, competition with conspecifics and enhanced
predation risk [59].

Our second result, that the ASR is more male-biased in
cooperatively breeding species, suggests that the dispersal
costs are relatively more severe for females in cooperatively
breeding species. This is perhaps not surprising for two
reasons: first, in cooperative breeders, saturated habitat
makes it difficult for individuals to find an independent breed-
ing position once they have left the natal territory and