rapidly both spatially and temporally. In modern hot-springs
systems, this results in a highly complicated association
between hot-springs environments and the vegetation they
harbour (summarized in [22]).

It seems likely that the water table was close to the surface
with frequent ponding [21,23]. There is no evidence that the
plants were totally submerged (i.e. aquatic). Indeed, Kidston &
Lang ruled out this possibility for some of the plants based
on the presence of stomata at the base of upright axes. How-
ever, it does seem likely that some stands of plants were from
time-to-time partially submerged. At least some of the plants
could survive this based on the fact that they have stromato-
litic growths around their bases from cyanobacterial mats
inhabiting the ponds, although it has recently suggested
that the stromatolite possibly supported the plants post-
mortem [24]. The presence of pyrite in the sediments suggests
that subsurface conditions were water-logged and reducing.

At Rhynie, we appear to have active geysers and vents
outflowing across sinter systems into the alluvial floodplain
(although geysers/vents and sinters are actually underrepre-
sented in the cherts they must have been present). Streams
and ponds of both hot-springs waters and normal meteo-
ric/fluvial waters would have occurred across the sinters