tion. This finding is very much in line with previous
physiological studies showing that the bulk of sporophyte bio-
mass derives from the gametophytes [74,75]. The early opening
of the stomata in Funaria relative to capsule expansion, a
phenomenon we have also noted in other funarialian genera
(Entosthodon, Physcomitrium), suggests that the single guard
cell characteristic of this order of mosses is a consequence of
sporophytic neoteny, a feature which appears to be unique to
this order of mosses.

These latest results, coupled with the growing suite of
developmental structural data on guard cell walls indicating
that these become immobile [21,48,49] and the fact that asto-
matal mutant sporophytes in Physcomitrella are the same size
as wild-type plants [6], all argue against the notion of early
acquisition of active stomatal control. One further factor
that has received but scant attention in relation to stomatal
function in both hornworts and mosses is pore obstruction
by wax-like materials [26,49,76]. Not only can obstructed
pores be seen near open pores in hornworts and in mature
moss capsules, but Merced & Renzaglia [76] have now
illustrated their occurrence in a capsule of Physcomitrella
with nearly mature spores but still with liquid-filled ICSs.

None of the rules about stomatal numbers and spacing in