areas involved in syntax processing and multiword semantic
integration such as the left perisylvian regions and the left
AG. This activation was lower for mathematical than for
non-mathematical sentences, but nevertheless significant,
especially in the initial phase of sentence processing. More
crucially, during the sentence listening period of our original
experiment, a small transient activation was observed in the
left AG in the contrast for meaningful compared to meaning-
less statements, both within math and non-math domains
(see figure S12 in [8]). This finding agrees with previous sug-
gestions that the AG might be involved in the semantic
integration of individual words or concepts [57]. Surpris-
ingly, however, rote algebraic facts did not activate the AG
more than other mathematical statements in our second
experiment, but continued to activate the classical math
network. Prior findings indicated that the AG might be
involved in the retrieval of verbal numerical facts such as
multiplication facts [6,7], but the present results suggest
that algebraic identities may not be stored in the same format.

Our results also challenge the triple-code model at the level
of the lateral IT activation. While this region was thought to be
associated with the visual form of numbers [26], we now see
that it can also activate in the complete absence of visual
stimuli, both during calculation and during high-level math-