All other effects were not significant (electronic sup-
plementary material), except for speed during solo flights
(p < 0.01) in Experiment 3 (unfamiliar site), suggesting that
faster birds were more likely to occupy higher leadership
ranks. Additional analysis of our data using a Pearson corre-
lation confirmed this previous finding [33] (electronic
supplementary material, figure S1).

In this study, we investigated the relationship between per-
sonality and individual influence on collective movement in
homing pigeons. Past studies investigating this relationship
typically focused on the single most influential member of
a group, despite the fact that many animal groups, including
homing pigeons [29], have distributed leadership, meaning
that more than one individual can influence collective move-
ment [25]. Our results showed, for the first time, that bold
individuals were more likely to occupy not only the highest
rank but also the subsequent upper ranks in leadership hier-
archies. This trend was observed irrespective of navigational
context; the same pattern was detected during free flights
around the lofts as in homing flights. Our data of solo
homing flights further showed that bold birds flew signifi-
cantly faster than shy ones, consistent with the recent
finding that leaders tend to fly faster during solo flights
than followers [33]. Another recent study showed that bold