[55-57]. For more abstract concepts, the role of labels is
expected to grow [58]. Whereas there is perceptual infor-
mation that can be used to distinguish, e.g. cats and dogs
[59], such perceptual regularities simply do not exist for
abstract meanings like those reviewed in the previous section.
In the absence of these pre-existing joints, a learner can rely
on evidence from language for guidance on what otherwise
dissimilar entities should be grouped together and which
similar entities should be categorically distinguished.

(ii) Language statistics as knowledge

We can learn facts, such as The sky is blue, by direct obser-
vation or because someone tells us. But there is a third
possibility. It has long been recognized that the distributional
structure of language provides an enormously rich source of
knowledge. By the distributional structure, we have in mind
Firth’s dictum that ‘you shall know a word by the company it
keeps’ [60, p. 11]. ‘Blue’ co-occurs with ‘sky’ much more fre-
quently than any other colour word. ‘Beard’ tends to co-occur
with words related to men (including male names and pro-
nouns). Such statistics scale in surprising ways. A basic
machine-learning algorithm exposed to a corpus of English
text can construct a fairly accurate map of Europe simply
from observing the ways in which city names co-occur in var-