
It is, however, obvious that further analyses based on both
experimental and theoretical developments will be needed to
fully account for the ways in which information—e.g. in the
form of various types of AMs—is being integrated into SAS.
Recently, Fazekas & Overgaard [80] have published an

extensive analysis of both cognitive and neural aspects of sub-
jective experiences and perceptual representations. It is being
demonstrated that both conscious experience and information
at the representational level can be degraded along multiple
dimensions. Such degradation is also associated with specific
physiological processes. The analysis [80] emphasizes the fact
that when addressing information integration into SAS, it is
necessary not only to focus on the ‘degree of integration into
SAS’ but also on a variety of other qualitative aspects. Within
the REF framework, we have so far primarily addressed the
fact that the ‘degree of integration’ into SAS is the mechanism
of the degree of availability to conscious awareness and/or
action. But, it is obvious that a given level of integration into
SAS can be realized in a multitude of ways—with different cog-
nitive consequences. Further experimental and_ theoretical
developments will expand the REFGEN model in order to
accommodate such differences. It is presently premature to
suggest any details regarding such processes. But there can