being able to report the relata. The second way to probe
this potential dissociation between the experience of (and
ability to discriminate) the elements and their relation is to
limit perception on the basis of a data-driven manipulation
(e.g. masking). While this test is not a critical one for the
non-Overflow interpretation, note that it is critical for the
Overflow one. If we find under masking that observers can
report a relation better than they can report the elements
that constitute that relation, this would pose a problem to
the Overflow position, which posits that relations are com-
puted based on (transiently) conscious representations of
elements and that ‘relations without relata’ are, as a matter
of fact, phenomenologically impossible.’

We also chose to probe the simplest relation between just
two elements: same versus different. Note that the CD dis-
crimination (especially in Exp. 3 of Bronfman ef al.) is
probing if the elements are similar/dissimilar, and thus this
is the true analogue of this type of CD for a reduced set of
two elements. Specifically, we asked if it is possible to dis-
criminate that two simple visual elements (letters such as X,
O, T) are same or different, without being able to identify
them. We present the identical pairs of letters that could be
either the same or different ones (e.g. ‘X O’ or ‘X X’), but
we probe, in different blocks, either same-different (S-D) or