response to a stressor, despite their lowered CRF response;
discussed above), which is then followed by an attenuated
response with lower peak values of cortisol owing to lower
crf expression. The role of MR for stress responses has been

rather neglected, as opposed to GR/GR1. A first step into
understanding the relative importance of the two receptors
would be to study the spatial distribution of the expression
of genes coding for MR and GR across nodes of the social
decision-making network, a network thought to be
responsible for the control of social behaviour [92].

The fact that a similar change of crf expression was caused
by mifepristone treatment in the telencephalon is in accord-
ance with our hypothesis that the mifepristone applications
generated increases in endogenous cortisol [46]. Furthermore,
early mifepristone application induced a higher constitutive
expression of mr in the telencephalon. Although this finding
is opposite to our initial predictions, we speculate that the
early mifepristone treatment generated a compensatory
effect in the stress axis similar to the one by cortisol. Mifepris-
tone blocks GRs, which are involved in the clearance of
cortisol and blocking of further cortisol production. Corre-
spondingly, juvenile N. pulcher exposed to mifepristone can
be assumed to have experienced temporarily enhanced corti-