only if required? In all likelihood, vision in birds—as
in humans [41,42]—is not strictly feedforward, but
rather characterized by rich interactions and feedbacks.
Therefore, colour, low-level and higher-level pattern
information are probably integrated in complex ways.

We find that the significant parameters predicting egg
rejection (table 1) are not highly correlated with one another
(electronic supplementary material, table S4), indicating that
colour, low-level and higher-level pattern features may have
evolved to maximize information content on host eggs, as
suggested previously [7,18,19]. Moreover, this finding under-
scores the fact that NPM is capturing non-redundant pattern
information (i.e. different from the information represented
by low-level features derived from spatial frequency analysis
or measures of pattern dispersion). Interestingly, we did not
find that egg rejection behaviour was predicted by a host’s
intraclutch or interclutch variation, as measured by NPM
(electronic supplementary material, tables S1 and S2). This
may be because prinia hosts appear to base their rejection
decisions on the pattern cues that differ most reliably
between real and parasitic eggs in the population [19], so

that hosts are tuned to the traits that will most consistently
reveal a large difference between parasite and host eggs irres-