animal and plant pathogen incursions, the susceptible population
needs to be estimated as these distributions are not necessarily
widely available and complete. For commercial crops and live-
stock, we use geospatial maps of commercial farms (often
collected by the agricultural commodity, Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service (APHIS), etc.), and parse the spatially
distributed population at the same desired scale, connecting the
host to the travelling human population from international
source(s). In some cases, the susceptible host populations for
plants and animal pathogens/biota can be further refined. For
example, in areas where horticultural crops are grown, such as
Citrus and Prunus, homeowners often also grow such plants in
their dooryards and gardens. In fact, data from past surveys of
citrus diseases conducted by state/federal regulatory agencies
show approximately 60% of residences in Florida grew citrus in
their gardens, at approximately two trees per residence. When
similarly validated datasets are available, we can link residential
host plants to the distribution of human residences at the chosen
spatial scale as a proxy to estimate residential host plant popu-
lations. We then join the resulting residential and commercial
plant host populations to approximate the spatial distribution of
hosts within the endpoint area of interest at fine to coarse
granularity.

(e) Risk algorithm and mapping