neutralize a second tumour suppressor. The first key discov-
ery, made independently by Lane & Crawford and Linzer &
Levine, was that SV40 large T antigen formed a stable com-
plex with a 54kDa cellular protein, initially named non-
viral T antigen [73,74]. By analogy to the situation of
murine polyomavirus middle T antigen and pp60Â°*, it
seemed likely that this cellular protein was an oncoprotein
activated by large T antigen to induce transformation. Con-
sistent with this view, the gene encoding this protein, now
known as p53, could act as an oncogene (e.g. [75]). However,
after some twists and turns, it became evident that p53
instead usually acts as a tumour suppressor [76-78]. In
fact, more than half of all human cancers harbour inactivating
or dominant-negative mutations in p53. As was the case for
RB, oncoproteins from multiple DNA tumour virus families
bind and inactivate p53. In addition to large T antigen,
adenovirus E1B and E4orf6 and high-risk HPV E6 also

neutralize p53 function to support transformation and tumor-
igenesis [79-81]. Studies of the mechanism of E6 action
resulted in the identification of E6-associated protein
(E6AP), the first mammalian ubiquitin E3 ligase. The E6
protein binds to E6AP, hijacking it to ubiquitinate p53 and
tag it for proteasome-mediated degradation [82,83].
