three English-speaking subjects who admitted using memori-
zation tricks to artificially increase their consistency score
rather than providing their natural associations. Our final
dataset contained 38 female English- and 95 female Dutch-
speaking synaesthetes (mean consistency in CIELuv = 70.48,
consistency range (27.87—-130.04)).

(ii) Non-synaesthetes

We collected data from 60 English-speaking and 24 Dutch-
speaking university students. Subjects completed the Eagleman
synaesthesia battery, but were given adjusted instructions to
account for the fact that they were reporting abstract associ-
ations rather than perceptual experiences. We described
synaesthesia, and explained that although the test they were
about to take was meant for synaesthetes, in this study it
would be used to measure how non-synaesthetes associate col-
ours. We asked the non-synaesthetes to report which colour is
best for the letter, and emphasized that they should not think
cognitively or use an explicit strategy, but rather report the
‘first colour that came to mind’ for each letter. We also empha-
sized that the task might seem strange to them, but that there
was no ‘right’ or ‘wrong’ answer. We processed these data in
the same way as with synaesthetes: we excluded subjects who
did not report a colour for at least 13 letters (i.e. 50% of the alpha-