stress [10]. Currently, the application of RT-DC tends to focus
on the study of cells cultured in suspension and circulating
cells, e.g. haematopoietic stem cells and peripheral blood
cells [11,12]. While this suspended state is inherent to a
number of cell types, most of the cells in the human body are
part of a tissue and therefore found in an adherent state. That
is the case for cardiomyocytes (CMs) which are the contract-
ing cells present in the myocardium and the main elements
responsible for cardiac activity [13].

When cultured in vitro, CMs can display a regular con-
tracting behaviour that is used as a relevant indicator
in toxicological studies. In fact, the mechanical and dynamic
properties of CMs are tightly connected. Contractility in CMs
is enabled by sarcomeres which are the supramolecular assem-
blies involving a combination of motor proteins such as myosin
with more structural/scaffolding proteins of which actin is a
notable example [14]. While sarcomeres primarily consist
o-actin molecules, most cells typically express f-actin, and to
a lesser extent also y-actin, that integrate the cytoskeleton
[15,16]. Cytoskeletal actin mediates processes of intracellular
cargo-transport, cell adhesion and spreading, migration and
represents a major contributor to the structural and mechanical
stability of the cell [17]. All isoforms of actin oscillate between a
monomeric globular (G) state and a polymeric filamentous (F)