feeding larvae will become more prevalent at higher lati-
tudes. Here, we explore how future temperature increases
will alter the global distribution of developmental modes,
based on their current distributions. We show a net decrease
in relative developmental diversity across all latitudes, with
species that display aplanktonic development in Antarctic
waters being the most vulnerable.

Because temperature affects the distribution of develop-
mental modes and developmental modes affect dispersal, the
future of marine connectivity may seem straightforward to
anticipate. However, such predictions are complicated by the
fact that temperature affects another key driver of dispersal
in marine systems—development duration [24].

The larval developmental rate depends strongly on temp-
erature [13,25]. The relationship between temperature and
developmental duration is exponential (at least within benign
temperature ranges)—a small increase in temperature can
reduce developmental durations significantly [26]. Tempera-
ture effects are relatively consistent across species, but there
are indications that the temperature-dependence of develop-
ment is itself temperature-dependent [13]. For example,
Rombough [27] notes that temperature dependencies of fish
development are greatest in cold-water species, and the few