trast innate hard-wired domain-specific reflexes on the one
hand, and domain-general associationist learning mechan-
isms on the other. But the kinds of learning that human
children engage in go well beyond simple association. Even
very young human children learn by formulating and testing
structured causal hypotheses about the world, updating them
in the light of new evidence [56-58]. Cultural learning is
particularly important for human children. Children are
especially sensitive to information they obtain from others,
both in their everyday observation and imitation of actions
and in learning from testimony (for reviews, see [59,60]).

Moreover, children do all this learning in spite of the fact
that they lack many of the kinds of intelligence that are
characteristic of adults. Young children are noisy, variable,
unfocused, unpredictable and impulsive. They lack ‘executive
function’ abilities and capacities for focused and directed
attention and are notoriously bad at long-term planning
and deferred gratification [61,62]. In fact, almost by defi-
nition, young children cannot even take care of themselves
(this is what immaturity means).

In addition to being effective learners in general, human
children are especially good at exploratory ‘active learning’
that involves the pursuit of information about the world.