that could confer species identity (e.g. major histocompatibil-
ity complex, [55,92-94]). Males and females use variation in
their chemical compounds to communicate physical con-
dition, reproductive state and initiate courtship behaviour
[95-97]. Additionally, the composition of odorants provides a
unique signature that is important for individual recognition
[98,99] and during sexual imprinting [78,100].

Although chemical cues alone appear not to be sufficient to
drive assortative mating in cichlids [51,61,101], it has been
suggested that visual signals often have to be supplemented
by other cues, such as chemical ones, to guide mate choice
([52,55]; figure 1d). In fact, conspecific odour in the presence
of random visual stimuli (i.e. heterospecific individuals) can
trigger courtship. Male Astatotilapia burtoni will even court
distantly related juvenile Tilapia mariae when their tank is
supplemented with water conditioned by a gravid A. burtoni
female, but will ignore them in the absence of such chemical
cues [102]. Even in cases where visual signals are sufficient to
initiate mating, olfactory cues may in some species be required
to trigger behavioural and hormonal responses crucial for
reproduction [95,96]. However, the role of odour in premating
isolation rests on the assumption that cichlids can distinguish
between conspecific and heterospecific cues, which to our
knowledge has not been tested, at least not systematically.