reddish stain with picro-carmine, and hence are readily seen as they lie in the yellow
stained protoplasm (fig. 24). The contour of these fragments is generally indistinct,
and in sections it is seen that they are more or less homogeneous granular bodies,
while at their periphery they gradually acquire the reticular structure of the sur-
rounding protoplasm. In some cases sections of the fragments show them to contain)
globular bodies, staining bright red with picro-carmine, which appear to be precisely,
similar to the nucleoli of the nucleus (fig. 25). In most cases, however, no such
bodies are to be seen. These fragments lie as has been said in the track of the
nucleus, and never extend far beyond it. In a few cases a prominence is seen in the
profile of the nucleus as though a portion were being separated off (fig. 24)

From the appearance of these bodies, their position in the track of the nucleus, and
from the fact that they may contain bodies like nucleoli, it seems probable that they
are indeed fragments of the nucleus which have been given off into the protoplasm as-
it has moved on from chamber to chamber. It is to be observed that though these
fragments sometimes contain nucleoli, the reticular structure is not seen in them.

Not unfrequently after treatment with picro-carmine, certain portions of the proto-
plasm present a generally diffused flush. In many cases this flush cannot be seen, |
either by examination of the whole specimen or of sections, to depend on the
presence of stained particles, though these may exist and be so small as to-escape
detection; the appearance is that the protoplasm in these regions has a general
stain. Frequently the flushed region either extends from the central chamber to &
little beyond the nucleus, or is limited to the chambers in the immediate neighbour-_
hood of the nucleus. In the specimen from which fig. 23 is drawn the flush is present: