
participant samples in Ecker and Ang may have differed the reason that evidence rejection has been predominantly


demonstrated in conservatives is that researchers have predo-
minantly looked at rejection of evidence that is consistent
with conservative worldviews. However, this presents future
research with a conundrum, because a number of studies
have now aimed but failed to find rejection of scientific evi-
dence on the left (e.g. [78-80]). For example, Lewandowsky
et al. [80] reported that vaccine-hesitancy and endorsement of
alternative medicine—both anecdotally associated with a lib-
eral worldview—were in fact more prevalent in right-wing
libertarians and conservatives. Based on additional evidence
from a task that required reasoning about scientific evidence
‘dilemmas’ that featured both worldview-consistent and
inconsistent aspects, Lewandowsky et al. concluded that parti-
sans on both ends of the spectrum show biased processing of
evidence, but that science denial was nevertheless a mainstay
of the political right. Future research, therefore, needs to shed
light on the catalysts that turn omnipresent information pro-
cessing biases into actual evidence rejection and science
denial. For example, some have linked the promotion of misin-
formation to a deep-seated psychological need for chaos that is
more prevalent on the political right (see [81]).