load [31-34]. This species has undergone lineage-specific
expansion and diversification of multiple gene families, par-
ticularly those involved in responses to environmental
stress and infectious agents, potentially owing to these chal-
lenging and variable environments [35-37]. In C. virginica,
tandem duplication is the predominant evolutionary process
responsible for this expansion and is an ongoing process
[36,38]. In particular, gene duplications leading to the expan-
sion of gene families related to immunity may provide an
evolutionary advantage, for example in pathogen recognition
through increased diversity of recognition receptors [38]. This
exposure to the environmental variation that could select for
different variants, along with the fact that oysters are known
to be highly polymorphic [39,40], suggests that the additional
copies of particular genes in individuals could function as a
significant component of standing variation in this species
that may have led to gene family diversity.

In order to understand the link between variation and
adaptation, we first need a better understanding of variation.
Owing to the recognized importance of expanded gene
families in oysters, we focus our analysis on duplications
rather than other forms of structural variation. We find exten-
sive genome-wide duplications in C. virginica, with inbred
individuals showing fewer duplications. The highest percen-