might in turn inflate the representation of ‘plain’ segments
at the cost of more complex ones. A third issue is that
proto-segments are typically established on the basis of cor-
respondence sets, which might lead to an over-estimation of
the number of segments in a reconstructed inventory. Prac-
titioners of the historical-comparative method are very
aware of this issue, and much attention is devoted to identi-
fying potentially overlapping distributions in order to
mitigate the inflation of proto-segments. Finally, a reviewer
raised the concern that ‘exotic’ sounds might be under-
reported in BDPROTO. We think that this is unlikely, given
the wide geographical and genealogical span of BDPROTO,
taking into consideration the fact that ‘exotic’ sounds like
ejectives, implosives, preaspirated nasals, prenasalized
stops and a variety of segments with additional articulations
are often reconstructed and therefore reported in phonologi-
cal inventories in BDPROTO.

4. Methods and results

The aims of this study are (i) to see if we can detect distribu-
tional changes between BDPROTO and PHOIBLE and (ii) to
ask whether, and if so how, the borrowing of speech sounds
played a role, by comparing their segment distributions
against SegBo. In order to do so, we conducted several series