identity (see [136]). Because of these social influences,
Brown [77] suggests that music may have co-evolved with
collective rituals, which could explain the universal associ-
ation between music and rituals, as well as the rewarding
properties of music from a psychological perspective.
According to him, based on the capacity of music to promote
social cohesion, and because music is overwhelmingly a
social phenomenon, the survival value of music is not
apparent at an individual, but only a group, level.

A somewhat similar hypothesis is that language evolved
as a form of ‘vocal grooming’, to maintain social bonds in
increasingly large groups [137-139]. In fact, when phylogen-
etically controlled, vocal repertoire size strongly predicts
group size as well as grooming time in non-human primates
[140]. Social bonding is maintained primarily via grooming in
primates, but in increasingly large groups this behaviour,
which tends to be a one-to-one activity, is less effective.
While this theory is presented in relation to the origins of
language, it suggests a stage of communal chorusing, lacking
propositional meaning, which replaced grooming. Dunbar’s
theory of vocal grooming is consistent with archaeological
evidence, as well as relationships between social group size
and neocortex size ({137-139], see also [141]).
