Brazilian bone-marrow donor registry. Surveying over 8000
admixed individuals, they showed that those who self-identify
as ‘Black’ have a reduction in their chances of finding a
matching donor, with respect to those who self-identify as
‘White’. Nunes ef al. [47] also explored the effects of two
forms of identifying the individual's genetic ancestry: geno-
mewide ancestry and ancestry specific to the MHC region.
In both cases, greater African ancestry was associated with
decreased chances of finding a match in REDOME (figure 6).
The reduction in chances of finding a match increases as we
go from grouping individuals as ‘Black’, to ‘most African gen-
omewide’, and finally ‘African within the MHC region’ [47].
This underscores the fact that, in admixed populations, the
decreased chances of finding a match for individuals who
identify as ‘Black’ is because this category is serving as a
proxy for ancestry within the MHC. A study of the NMDP,
which is the registry of volunteer haematopoietic cell donors
in the United States, also found that individuals who self-
identify as ‘Black’ have a lower chance of finding a donor,
compared to those who identify as ‘White’ [45], but did not
explore effects of genetic ancestry.

Two factors can explain the lower rates at which individ-
uals with greater African ancestry find matching donors in
Brazil’s REDOME. First, whereas the categories ‘Black’ and