nuclear size, TGCs’ ploidy may directly support tissue integ-
rity and epithelial barrier function [127]. Moreover, increased
DNA content need not be uniform. TGCs exhibit selective
amplification of functionally important gene loci, such as
for immune and hormonal regulation to support fetal physi-
ology [128]. Similarly, polyploidy of maternal tissues in the
Drosophila ovary is thought to support a high transcriptional
yield of needed protein products for oocyte provisioning and
eggshell production [127].

Endoreplication is also a hallmark of both the serosa and
amnion in insects, with tissue-specific levels of ploidy gener-
ating particularly large serosal nuclei (e.g. [18,104]). In fact,
cessation of mitosis and switch to the endocycle is among
the earliest features of tissue differentiation in the serosa,
and even in the Drosophila amnioserosa [24,129]. Many

purported tissue-scale functions of polyploidy are probably
applicable in this outer EE tissue. Serosal tissue integrity as
a barrier epithelium of large cells confers cellular protection
via detoxification [130] and innate immune responses to
infection [55,56]. Furthermore, in many insect species, the
serosa secretes a substantial cuticle that provides desiccation
resistance [131-133] and mechanical protection [24]. Thus,
polyploidy—and perhaps selective amplification—may