Evolutionary biologists distinguish cooperative (non-breeders
cooperate) from communal breeding (breeders cooperate) as
derived from different selection pressures [25]. This distinction
is useful in differentiating circumstances where reproductive-
aged women (i.e. other mothers) help each other (communal
breeding), which has implications for reproductive conflict,
from those where non-breeders (primarily daughters and grand-
mothers) help to care for and provision children. Non-breeders,
particularly a mother’s own children, have lower opportunity
costs and few conflicting interests to cooperate since they are
not raising offspring of their own and benefit by leveraging
their non-reproductive status into an indirect fitness gain
[10,23]. The fact that humans are described as both communal
and cooperative breeders puts a point on how vested human
mothers are in reproductive cooperation.

(b) Sexual selection theory

To shed light on cooperation, it is also important to consider
how competition has been integrated into views of female
sociality. Sexual selection theory forms the basis for many
ideas about sex differences in competition (intrasexual selec-
tion), and attendant distinctions in physiological traits (size,
ornamentation and weaponry) and behaviours—insights
articulated by Darwin [26], forwarded by Bateman [27] and