to name more partners in total, to name unrelated partners,
and not to overlap work partnerships with kin when selecting
alloparents. This is exactly the strategy we see Shodagor
women traders employing. On average, they name signifi-
cantly more work (figure 3) and childcare (figure 4)
partners than fishers, indicating larger network sizes in
these domains. They also name more partners in work and
childcare who are non-kin, meaning they are not related to
respondents genetically or through marriage (electronic sup-
plementary material, figures S1,S2 and table $1). And while
traders name more kin as alloparents than fishers (probably
owing to traders naming more alloparents overall, as well as
the fact that kin are the most important alloparents for all
women), a breakdown across kin categories shows that tra-
ders are naming alloparents from more kin categories than
fishers (electronic supplementary material, figure S1). For
example, traders, but not fishers, named their grandparents,
aunts and uncles, and distant kin members as potential allo-
parents, in addition to their spouses, children and parents.
These results are consistent with the data that Starkweather
et al. [33] reported, in which mother and father account for
84.45% of all childcare, with their parents, older children
and others accounting for a larger proportion of care than in
fishing families. These resultsâ€”in which women rely on child-
care help from large, diverse networks of alloparents, who