
with a given number of other mutants ([22,41,45,117,118];
equation (C5) in electronic supplementary material, appendix
here). Equation (4.1), by contrast, depends only on neutral
relatedness, which is just one moment of this distribution
assuming the mutant and resident have the same traits.
There are at least two advantages to this. First, there exist stan-
dard techniques coming from coalescent theory to compute
such a relatedness coefficient ([29]; electronic supplementary
material, appendix C.1.6 here for an example of such argu-
ment). Second, it is perhaps the only evolutionary parameter
presented in this review that can be easily and systematically
estimated in natural populations. In fact, RÂ° in equation (4.1)
can be connected to the well-known Fsr measure of genetic
differentiation [119], which can be estimated from neutral mar-
kers [120]. Owing to its simplicity, empirical connections and
the biological insights it affords, equation (4.1) has been one
of the most widely used expressions to understand directional
selection on an array of social behaviours, such as cooperation,
sex ratio, dispersal and many more [31].

More seldom seen is disruptive selection in terms of relat-
edness coefficient [45,47,115,121-125]. Under the assumption
that individual fitness can be written as w(z.,Z), we show in
electronic supplementary material, appendix C.1.4 that