altered HPA-axis activity in MDD patients as indexed by
higher levels of cortisol [49]. In addition, elevated morning
cortisol has been found to predict future depression [50,51].
Unfortunately, despite the strength of the current evidence
on the role of the HPA-axis in depression, intervention
studies on pharmacological treatments targeting HPA-axis

function (e.g. glucocorticoid receptor antagonist) have
yielded mixed or null results [52-54].

HPA-axis hyperactivity indexed by excessive amounts of
cortisol has also been observed in people living with obesity.
In fact, it has been estimated that almost 50% of adults with
BMIs categorized as obese also show excessive levels of cor-
tisol [55], and that obesity is associated with dysregulation
of HPA stress reactivity [56]. Furthermore, there is evidence
that systemic glucocorticoid therapy used to treat patients
with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is
often accompanied by weight gain, suggesting that glucocor-
ticoid dysregulation may contribute to the development of
high body weight [57]. Interestingly, individuals living with
obesity who report weight discrimination have 33% higher
cortisol concentrations than those who do not, with
mediation analysis indicating that discrimination on the
basis of weight partly accounts for the links between greater