basinceipitel, so that wll these structures lie wholly within the ermial cavity and
dorsad to the osseous recesses for the sacculi which here, as in the novmul Silorids,
are roofed over by horizontal plates developed from the exoceipitals. With suali
singular modifications must also be mentioned the almost complete anchylosia of the
conjoiied and dislocated anterior vertebrax with the oeeipital portion of the skull, and
the enclosure of the two completely separated nir-saca into which the air-bladder is
divided within vecesses formed by the so-called dorsal wid ventral lamingw of the
modified transverse processes above, behind, and below, and by the posterior face of
the skull in front, while the lateral or distal apertures of the recesses are closed hy
the lateral cutaneous areas only, the post-temporals merely forming their anterior and
ventral lips, The absence of a sinus endolymphatious, althongh the ductus endolym-
phaticus still remains, the partially fibrous condition of the roof of the eayam sinus
imparis, and the fact that, as a consequence of the forward dislocation of the anterior
vertebriz, the seaphia form the side walls of the cavutn situs imparis instead of those
of the atrial cavities, are also noteworthy features. Finally, may be mentioned the
absence of a ducths preumatious, the partial ossification of the funiea externa of the
inner half of each aix-sac, und the fusion of the osseous cnps so formed with the sida
walls of the newul canal in this regiou, and the presence of intercaluria and pudi-
mentary cluustra, in addition to a coneayo-conyex seaphium without condylar or
asceniling processes.

The condition of the air-bladder, Websrian mechanisra anid the associated skeletal
structures in Zypophthalmus ave such as-to justify the conclasion thal in this genus
the structures in question, while in some vespects more normal than in any of
the Hypostomatinze at present examined, in others reach their extreme of retro-