strength of the arguments against Wepmrâ€™s theory which we have previously urged,
and cinnot but regard as fatal to it,

(e.) Even if the admission be made that the air-bladder and its ossicles are
accessory to hearing, the Fish could have no power of appreciating the direction of |
sounds conyeyed to the internal ear by such means. Aty cognizance of the varying
directions from which sounds may come is generally believed to be due in all
vertebrated animals to the differential action of the two ears, but we have already
shown* that no such action can possibly take place in response to impulses received
through the Weberian mechanism in accordance with Weeen's theory. Tt would,
therefore, seem that any increased acuteness of hearing that might be conferred on
the Fish by the air-bladder in its presumptive function as an accessory to audition,
would be counterbalanced by the fact that such increase of auditory capacity could
not be associated with a corresponding increase i the power of appreciating the
direction of sounds, Whatever may be the physiologies| importance of the sense of
hearing in Fishes, whether associated with the pursuit of prey, or as an aid in
escaping from enemies, or, a8 in the case of gregarious Fishes, as a means of keeping
together in shoals for breeding or other purposes, the power of appreciating the
direction of sounds must be of primary importance in any modification of the auditory
organ in the direction of giving to its possessor exceptional powers of hearing.

(2.) Contrary to what might fairly be expected if so complicated a structure as the
Weberian mechanism is an accessory to heaving, there is absolutely no evidence of the
existence of exceptional powers of hearing either in the Siluridse or any other
Ostariophysem.