to obtain. A comparison between these results and those given with the Frog-
galvanoscope (Part I., Section 3) will show how closely the results of the two
methods agree. It is evident, from the consideration of both sets of records, that
the reflex central rhythm is one which very rapidly fails, since we have never
succeeded in obtaining any record of more than five multiple responses occurring
after one another at a rate of from 3/5 to 4 of a second. The fish will often
discharge again after a few seconds, if the skin pressure is maintained, but this
response is frequently only a single one. On the other hand the intensity of the
response itself and the number of successive developments of the peripheral organ
rhythm is not susceptible to fatigue in the same way. The response may be very
powerful, although such as would be evoked by only a single stimulus, and this
even after the fish has been subjected to the squeeze treatment for a considerable
number of times.* This fact has become familiar to us,as to Du Bors-Reymonp, by
many prolonged experimental demonstrations, particularly those in which a large
number of people have successively obtained, by the same method, the discharge
through the hand, as for instance at the Conversazione of the Royal Society, and
that of the British Association at Ipswich, where living specimens of Malapterurus
were shown.

An analysis of those reflex records in which the members of a group of responses
recur at the more rapid intervals, shows the following time interval between the
successive members of the group :—

‘085 sec. ‘092 sec. 096 sec. ‘098 sec. “110 sec.
"180 4; 140 ,, "150"; ws Sy 9) oy