sentation of the movements of flexion and extension. We have just seen that pure
extension was limited to certain centres ; we have now to add that we have only seen
pure flexion at centres 1, 1’, 4, and 4’. We are not inclined to lay much stress on
this limitation of the representation of the movements of pure flexion and extension,
but we note the foregoing facts for the purpose of recording them.

We will now consider what appears to us the much more important co-operation of
these two movements of flexion and extension of the digits. On this point we have
obtained the exceedingly definite result that both movements are represented in the
middle 4 of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions, and that, while in the
ascending frontal convolution extension precedes flexion, in the ascending parietal
convolution this order is reversed, and so extension follows flexion. In view of the
fact that pure extension is only represented in 12, 12’, 13, and 13’, z.e., in those
centres which are immediately in front of the middle 4 of the ascending frontal
convolution, we readily understand how it comes about that in the ascending frontal
extension precedes flexion, whereas behind the fissure of Rolando it follows flexion.
We have observed interosseal flexion to precede long flexion in three cases, and only
in the centres 8’, 2, 2’, 12, and 3. It is obviously possible that this interosseal flexion
of the digits, consisting of flexion of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints and extension

of the phalangeal joints, should co-exist in perfect harmony with long extension of the
digits. It must not be understood that in all the remaining cases interosseal exten-
sion of the phalanges leads the way for the action of the long extensors ; indeed, in
many instances it appeared to us that preliminary extension of the digits was so
sharp and complete as to be explained only by rapid and perfect action of the long