upon animals must always be to a certain extent unsatisfactory, since we can obtain
no evidence of the actual character of the sensation provoked. Fortunately it is
probable that the elucidation of this question by careful observations of cases of
cerebral injury in Man will not long be wanting.

Difficult as it is to decide in animals questions relating to the general and tactile
sensibility of a limb deprived of voluntary motion, it is yet more difficult to form any
opinion regarding the presence-or absence of the so-called muscular sense. It was the
opinion of Hirzre that a lesion of the motor cortex effected an abolition of the
muscular sense of the part paralysed, and he inclined to regard the paralysis as
produced rather in consequence of the loss of this directive sensation than immediately
by removal of motor nerve-cells. This mode of viewing the question and of explaining
the facts of experiment has been adopted and ably advocated by Basrran, who brings
forward a large amount of evidence derived from pathological observation in its
favour.* Ferrrter, on the other hand, appears to admit only the direct: production of
motor paralysis, and is disposed to localise all kinds of sensibility, including the
muscular sense (which he regards as entirely derived from indications conveyed by
nerves of ordinary tactile sensibility) in other regions of the cortex than those
connected with the production of voluntary motion ; while others, again, amongst whom
Scurrr and Munk are to be included, endeavour to show that, while from one set of
nerve-cells of the excitable regions of the cortex the fibres which convey voluntary
impressions may directly arise, other cells of the same regions, indirectly connected
with the first set, may serve as the terminal organs of the nerve-fibres, which convey
sensory impressions, general, tactile, and muscular, and may transfer these centrifugal
impressions to cells which give origin to the fibres of the motor tract. And it would