towards the median line in those cases where the sorus is elongated.

As to the relation of the sporangia to one another, the living genera show
important differences. In Danea and Marattia the individuality of the sporangia is
barely indicated by a slight convexity of the outer surface of each sporangium when
mature, while the young sorus appears as a smooth upgrowth. In Kaulfussia the
individual sporangia are not much more clearly marked externally, but in Angiopteris
they project at an early stage as separate convexities, and in the mature state,
though slightly united at the base, they rise upwards as almost separate rounded
bodies. These facts may be taken as representative stages in a morphological series,
and the similarity of development in the four genera would support that idea.
Moreover, as we shall see, the fossils provide other examples which amplify the
series. As in other morphological series, however, the facts may be taken as illus-
trating either of two views; in this case either a progression from a coherent toa
separate condition of the sporangia, or a progressive fusion of them. This question
will be considered again later, when the fossils have also been brought into the
comparison.

The existence of a specialised mechanism for dehiscence of the individual
sporangium appears to run parallel with the separate projection of the individual
sporangia. In Danaea and Kaulfussia, in which the sporangia are closely united
laterally, no indurated tissues have been found which can be held to act as an
annulus for the mechanical widening of the slit of dehiscence. In these genera the
slit, once formed, gapes merely by reason of the collapse of the neighbouring cells.
Nor would it be possible, by any simple use of mechanical tissue, to improve upon