blindness is so very simple, that probably only the fear of injuring the eyesight by
such a procedure has deterred observers from the free use of it. It consists in
exposing the eye to bright sunlight in the focus of a burning glass behind a trans-
parent screen of the proper colour, and keeping it there until all sensation of that
particular colour is lost. The time necessary to produce this condition varies with
the season of the year, the altitude of the sun, the health of the observer, and the
colour of the transmitted light, but it is easy to recognise, by the change in the
character of the sensation, when the exposure is sufficient. On removing the eye
from the lens the glare of the positive after-effect is at first so strong that every-
thing seems hidden behind a luminous fog, but after a few seconds this diminishes
until it is only noticeable on feebly illuminated objects. But for some time.all direct
sensation of the colour used for fatiguing the eye is completely lost, whereas its
sensitiveness to all other colours is undiminished. The observer is, in fact, colour-
blind. From this condition he recovers, in the case of the red light, in about ten
minutes, The effect of the green light lasts longer, and that of blue light longer
still, while the recovery from violet-blindness may require a couple of hours.

Although for purposes of exact observation it is necessary to use a train of prisms,
the principal phenomena may so easily be demonstrated with coloured screens that it
may be worth while to describe briefly those I have found best adapted for the purpose.

For producing red-blindness ordinary ruby glass is not sufficient. If deep, it
transmits too little light, and if pale, it allows green rays to pass in sufficient
quantity to vitiate the results. A gelatine film stained with magenta or fleur de
Paris, used in conjunction with a medium ruby glass, gives a very pure red.