may thus serve as two types to which the others may be referred.

Scilla nutans. I have examined the bulb several times at various periods of the
year, and never found any starch in the bulb-scales ; it occurs only in smal] amounts
towards the apex of the axis of the bulb in minute granules. Sections of the bulb
preserved for some time in alcohol do not show any sphero-crystals, but the
parenchymatous cells have amorphous deposits (fig. 1). The alcohol sections give
pronounced colorations with the Â«-naphthol and orcin tests, A drop of the naphthol
solution is put on the section, and then a couple of drops of sulphuric acid added,
when almost immediately a deep violet colour spreads all over it. With orcin the
coloration appears in a similar way as a deep orange-brown. After steeping the
sections in cold water, they no longer respond to the tests, and the precipitate has
disappeared from the cells; this agrees with the fact that the prepared inulin from
the bulb is soluble in cold water. Thus the evidence that the substance deposited in
the cells by the spirit is the inulin is fairly conclusive. The abundant mucilage of
the numerous raphide-cells may interfere with a clear view of the behaviour of the
inulin, since in water it does not at once dissolve, but swells up, and is apt to
obliterate the view of the parenchymatous cells. It has, however, no connection
with the tests, because a section, after being in water, does not react with the
reagents, although it may have a lot of mucilage still adhering to it. Some of the
reserve organs devoid of, or with much fewer raphide-cells, to be described later,
show the appearance and disappearance of the inulin matter much better. The
stored carbohydrate material in the bulb of this plant then is largely, most likely
solely, an inulin, reserve-starch being entirely absent.
