limb more than it resembles the posterior part of that latter, in segmental structure
both of muscles and skin. This greater resemblence is evident both in the number
and step-like arrangement of segments and in the mutual relation obtaining in each
segment between the position of its muscular and its cutaneous portions.

I must here, however, to avoid misapprehension, repeat my previously-expressed
conviction, that it is altogether idle to look for exact homologies between the com-
ponent parts of the brachial and pelvic limbs. “ The ontogeny of the brachial limb is
distinct from that of the pelvic limb. The correspondence between the two is
similarity, not identity. A general, but not a particular, resemblance is to be
expected between the segmental components of the two,’* and that is all that has been
found. More instructive than to attempt to construe identity out of approximate
resemblance is to note the fact that broad similarity of requirement and use has
from broadly similar segmental material evolved, at two places of the ventro-lateral
aspect of the quadruped, two separate structures so curiously alike, as are the brachial
and the pelvic imbs. The details of this resemblance between the two appear to me
absolutely insufficient criteria for establishing detailed homologies between their
parts.

Anatomists teacht that in the higher vertebrata, at an early period of the embryonic
existence of the limbs, a rotation of the limb, as a whole, takes place at its place of
junction with the trunk, This rotation, at the proximal end of the limb, is described
as occurring in opposite directions in the fore and hind limbs respectively. The fore-
limb is rotated from the shoulder through nearly a quarter of a circle, so that the
convexity of the elbow, which should point dorsally, comes to point backwards, and