and fig. 5). It will be observed on Table 3 that in three instances we noted
interosseal flexion in this region. Discussion of the relation between interosseal
flexion and extension of the digits we shall enter into further on,

As regards the movement of flexion, we find that it is represented over the whole
of the area which has been the subject of our investigations, with the exception of
the centres above mentioned, viz., 12, 13, 12’, and 13’. We have now to draw
attention to some extremely important considerations concerning the relative repre-
sentation of the movements of flexion and extension. We have just seen that pure
extension was limited to certain centres ; we have now to add that we have only seen
pure flexion at centres 1, 1’, 4, and 4’. We are not inclined to lay much stress on
this limitation of the representation of the movements of pure flexion and extension,
but we note the foregoing facts for the purpose of recording them.

We will now consider what appears to us the much more important co-operation of
these two movements of flexion and extension of the digits. On this point we have
obtained the exceedingly definite result that both movements are represented in the
middle 4 of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions, and that, while in the
ascending frontal convolution extension precedes flexion, in the ascending parietal
convolution this order is reversed, and so extension follows flexion. In view of the
fact that pure extension is only represented in 12, 12’, 13, and 13’, z.e., in those
centres which are immediately in front of the middle 4 of the ascending frontal
convolution, we readily understand how it comes about that in the ascending frontal
extension precedes flexion, whereas behind the fissure of Rolando it follows flexion.
We have observed interosseal flexion to precede long flexion in three cases, and only