hitherto to discover any use which the organ of the Skate subserves. If there is
difficulty in discovering the utility of the large electric organ of R. batis, it may
presumed the difficulty will be still greater in suggesting a use for the smaller org
of R. radiata. But the small size of the organ in R. radiata may, of itself, b
considered an argument in favour of degeneration, or, at least, in favour of its havi
been arrested in its development ; and to the absolute smallness of the organ there i
to be added, that the cups composing it are not only extremely minute, but, furthei
they are remarkably shallow, and hence the electric plate (the most essential part ¢
an electric organ) is very limited in extent. But, as already indicated, the small siz
of the organ in . radiata has, in all probability, been determined by the size of th
tail in this species. It may be supposed that the reduction of the tail in the specie
radiata had proceeded further than in the species batis before the electric organ
succeeded in establishing itself, and that, in fact, the organ in R. radiata is as larg
as the circumstances attending its development hitherto have rendered possible
It is, of course, impossible to say whether the organ in &. radiata is now, or i
former ages long remained in, or nearly in, a state of arrested development—neither
distinctly receding nor advancing,

In a degenerating organ, which appeared at a remote period, we should expect that
it would pass rapidly through the early or developmental stages, and that as i
possessor continued to increase in size the organ would undergo retrogressive changes,
while in an organ that had been simply arrested we should expect that after a certain
stage of development had been reached it would remain in a state of comparative
quiescence. A reference to the chapter on the development of the organ in R. radiate
will, however, show that neither of these conditions holds—the development is only