took Jurassic genera as the basis of work, he included also Triassic, Cretaceous,
Tertiary, and recent genera in smaller number. The genera Coseinarea and
Siderastrea are indeed the only two recent genera included. For the features of
Coseinarea he relied upon information given him by Kiunzincer ; while Siderastrea
received but a brief examination and was not directly compared with Fungide and
with Fungia. Again, in accordance with the then generally accepted idea that
Madreporaria aporosa, B.H., had little connection with M. perforata, H.H., Prarz
nowhere institutes a comparison of any type, fossil or recent, with the Eupsammine,
On the other hand, the trabeculate porous character of the septa in the Poritine
induced him, without any microseopie or closer investigation of typical genera, to
place the sub-family Poritinse, E.H., under his sub-family Pseudoastreine, together
with Mierosolena and other fossil members called Pseudoastreine regulares. I
mention this last fact because it is possible it may have influenced Neumayn in
writing of “ Microsolena,” as building a “ bridge to the Poritide ” (cf below, p. 306).

Proposed Emendation of the Sub-family Pseudoastraine, Pratz.

As the microscopic slides of Pratz were placed at my disposal, I feel in a position
to review the table of classification which he founded upon them, The only
modifications which strike me as advisable concern the recent genera, and one or
two fossil genera which my examination of recent Kupsammine leads me to regard as
more nearly allied with Eupsamminz than with Pseudoastreine. These fossil
genera are classified by Pratz as Pseudoastraine irregulares, and along with them
he places the recent Coscinarea, The type genus Haplarea (Jur.), shows
microscopically and macroscopically marked similarity with the genus Hupsammia