another part bleeding into the uterine cavity may never take place at all. ‘The most
important distinction between the two processes lies in the formation of the
menstrual clot (Stage VII.) in the Primates. This results from the intensity of the
bleeding and the severity of the denudation, which in the case of the sheep's
procestrum scarcely occurs, being, as I have shown above, confined to certain spots
on the surface of the mucosa, where a few epithelial cells may be removed. The
period of recuperation with Semnopithecus and Macacus, as described by Mr. Hzare,
differs from that following the procestrum in the sheep, mainly in the gathering-up
into the circulatory system of the extravasated blood corpuscles and leucocytes, and
the consequent absence of pigment formation. *

That the procestrum of the sheep and the menstrual phenomena of monkeys are
physiologically homologous is rendered exceedingly probable in view of the. facts
cited above, and without reference to other members of the mammalian class. But
the probability seems to become converted into a certainty that can hardly be
doubted, after making a further comparison with the procestrous processes of the
bitch as described by Rerrerer (1892), and of the ferret as observed by the present
writer. Special reference must also be made in this connection to Stratz’s notes
(1898) on the “ menstrual” discharges of Tupaia and Tarsius, in each of which a
blood-clot is described, although there appears to be no removal of mucosa tissue
beyond the epithelium.

The only account hitherto published of a systematic investigation into the
phenomena of the procestrum in a lower mammal, so far as I am aware, is that ot
Rerrerer (1892), who briefly describes the process in the case of the bitch, as just