distinct individuality; in the Ferns and Lycopods, or even in the pollen-sacs of
Angiosperms, such sporangia are seen; but it is a question how far the idea of the
individualised sporangium derived from such cases is an enlightening one, from the
point of view of descent. Similarly, the old conception of the cell as the structural
unit of the plant-body was based on the study of the tissues of the higher plants,
where the cells are for the most part individualised ; it had to give way before the
accumulated examples of cell-fusions, of polynucleate cells, and of non-cellular con-
struction in plants. Just as by the comparison of such structures as these the idea of
the cell has undergone modification, notwithstanding that cells are commonly definite
bodies in the ordinary tissues of the higher plants, so may the existence of sporangial
septations and fusions modify the conception of the sporangium.

The fact of septation of originally simple sporangia having taken place has only been
proved in comparatively few of those cases where sporangia show that close relation
to one another known as the synangium. The best cases of septation are those from
the anthers of certain Angiosperms, such as the Onagracese, Mimoseze, Loranthacex,
Rhizophorex, &c. In these the comparative argument is made valid by the numerous
allied genera, which give ground for close comparison. While many plants of these
orders show the ordinary quadrilocular anthers, in others the loculi may be subdivided
by further septa, and thus a number of sacs take the place of each original one. The
development shows that the septation results from conversion of sporogenous tissue
into sterile septa.* Similarly an argument for fusion of sporangia can also be
supported on comparison among Angiosperms, though it is a less frequent change.
Examples are to be found in the coalescent ovules of certain Loranthacez,f or in the
confluent pollen-sacs of certain Guttiferm, &c.