external form distinctly favours their relation to the smaller of the coal-types. A
somewhat similar argument applies in the case of the Equisetinese ; small forms not
unlike our modern Equisetum existed as early fossils, while as regards the strobilus,
the Equisetum of the present day is fairly matched by certain allied fossils. Among
the Ferns, a large living Angiopteris will probably compare favourably in size with
any Fern which has been found as a fossil, while the sori are almost identical with
those of some fossils. It is not denied that reduction has taken place sometimes, for
instance, the Hymenophyllacez are probably reduced types, a view which accords well
with the peculiar specialisation which the Leptosporangiate Ferns, and they in
particular, show. The protest is against any wholesale assumption that reduction has
been general among homosporous Pteridophytes.

The fact seems to have been that the giant forms of Pteridophyta themselves died
out, though the smaller related forms survived ; accordingly our living homosporous
forms are not to be regarded as themselves reduced on the mere ground that larger
forms akin to them existed in the past. The giant forms are chiefly the result of
vegetative amplification : comparing the spore-producing parts of living homosporous
Pteridophytes with those of their fossil correlatives, the present types, with few
exceptions, hold their own in point of complexity, and do not show evidence of any
general reduction, These considerations seem to me to justify the position that,
unless good evidence of reduction be brought forward in any given case, the spore-
producing members of the homosporous Archegoniate: should be regarded as in the
up-grade of evolution.*

Notwithstanding the great difference in general form between the sporophytes of