has since 1893 been strengthened by striking new facts, viz., the discovery of fresh
cases of direct vegetative transition from the one generation to the other in
Archegoniate plants.t Apogamy and apospory are both phenomena of more frequent
occurrence, especially in Ferns, than had previously been anticipated, and many of
the examples of it seem to obliterate any limits between the two generations. But
though the upholders of the antithetic theory would hold the two generations to be
distinct as regards origin, it is not essential for that theory that the distinction should
always be maintained in individuals now living. These vegetative transitions,
appearing as they do most frequently in plants which are highly specialised, such as
the Leptosporangiate Ferns, or under the stress of special circumstances, do not
appear to be incompatible with the antithetic theory as above sketched, for it seems
probable that they were not of primary origin, but acquired more recently, as short
cuts in the life-cycle ; this suggestion accords well with the facts.

Lane remarks on the sharpness of the contrast between the tissues of the one
generation and of the other.{ Unfortunately attempts to trace the nuclear conditions
which accompany these vegetative transitions in the Archegoniatz have so far been
without result, and a decisive opinion on nuclear grounds as to the validity of these
cases as arguments against the antithetic theory must be held in suspense.ยง
Meanwhile, on grounds of general comparison, there is good reason to regard these
developments as short cuts in the life-cycle, rather than as historical throw-backs,
and that they arise under peculiar states of nutrition ; on this view they would not
be fitting material for far-reaching morphological argument as to the primary origin
of normal forms.||.
