All these are doubtless the morphological expressions of an advantage in the production
of sporangia in groups, projecting beyond the surface, each group having its central
vascular supply, while by their close relation to one another, or to the parts which
bear them, the sporangia are adequately protected while young. Such sporangiophores
would on this view be the result of a similar method of advance taking place at
points not morphologically comparable. The resulting sporangiophores, however
similar in form, would not be homogeneous, but only comparable in the manner of their
production (homoplastic), In none of these cases is it probable that they are of the
nature of leaves.*

Tt may be asked how this non-phyllome theory of the sporangiophores is compatible

with the facts in Hquisetum, in which the annulus has usually been accepted as a
transition from the foliage-whorls to the sporangiophores. It is true the annulus lies
at the boundary between the sterile and fertile regions, and that in Mquisetum no
vestiges of leaf-whorls are found higher up among the sporangiophores. Gorset has
pointed out an obvious protective use for the annulus, which would sufficiently
account for its constancy and limited size in the genus.t A comparison of other types
of Equisetineous strobili affords the following explanation of the Equisetwm strobilus
in terms of the fossils. In the genus Archeocalamites (Bornia) Renavur describest for
B. radiata, Broxen., how the male fructifications are simple, or interrupted in their
length by verticils of leaves, which render the spike itself, so to speak, articulated
and of very variable length. The condition of these spikes is then different in
proportion, rather than in essential points from that described for Phyllotheca,ยง and
this again differs from Calamostachys mainly in the number of the sporangiophores