lamina, and partly through the sporangia belonging to it. In the middle of the group
is the pedicel (pd), seen in transverse section ; the upper sporangium (as the figure
is placed) is cut across in its full extent; below, the section passes through a portion
of the lamina (/m), and also through the base of the second sporangium. The body
(lm’) between the two sporangia on the right-hand side of the figure is probably a
part of the edge of the lamina, which was here sufficiently incurved to meet the
plane of section.

The arrangement of the parts in this section clearly indicates that only two
sporangia were borne on the lamina, and this was, no doubt, constant. There is
never any trace of more than two, and as the sections cut the laminz at all angles,
indications of others must have been met with if a larger number had been present.
The elongated form of the lamina also points to its being bisporangiate. The fact
that laminze showing two sporangia appear both in transverse and longitudinal
sections, might have led to the inference that there were four in all, as in
Cheirostrobus or Calamostachys, if they appeared at all constantly in both planes.
This, however, is not the case; it is rather the exception, in each plane of section,
for the two sporangia to appear, while narrow sections of lamin showing only one
sporangium, if any, are frequent. Thus all indications point to the conclusion that
the sporangiophores each bore two sporangia, and no more, as in the Bowmanites
Réimeri of Count Solms-Laubach.

The structure of the laminz is very characteristic. The external epidermis,
commonly, though not always, coinciding with the periphery of the cone, is a
conspicuous, large-celled layer, forming a striking feature in all the sections (see