recover its tone, the blood pressure rises slowly once more, and coincidently the
respirations improve in frequency, and recovery takes place in spite of complete
incoagulability of the blood, and well-marked visceral hemorrhages. All the facts
recorded can, then, be explained as a result of paralysis of the central vaso-motor
centre, and in no other way.

III. Action on the Respiratory Centre.

The failure of respiration occurring in the case of Viperine poisons can best be
explained as being secondary to the failure of the circulation brought about by the
central vaso-motor paralysis. Whether they have any direct action on the respiratory
centre as well, as held by Werk Mircwety and Retcuert and by FLEXNER in the case
of the Rattlesnake, is open to doubt. In favour of such an action is the fact that in
the cases in which small doses of Daboia venom were given, to induce the negative
phase of reduced coagulability, the number of respirations were nearly always reduced
very considerably before any marked fall of blood pressure had taken place. Further,
in some instances when a second dose of venom was injected, after complete vaso-motor
paralysis had taken place, the already much reduced respirations speedily failed
altogether and death took place, as, for example, in the fourth Puff Adder experiment.
In one experiment (not mentioned hitherto) two small subcutaneous doses of Daboia
venom, which had been mixed for } hour with CaLmerrteâ€™s antivenin, were uot followed
by the usual slowing of the respiration, which would seem to point to a small amount
of Colubrine poison present having been neutralised by the serum. On the other hand
is the fact that in no case of Viperine poisoning was there any evidence of paralysis
of the end-plates of the phrenic nerves. The evidence does not seem to be sufficient