tion and the ovarian functions are in no way inter-dependent, but are related only
in so far as each may be brought about by the same cause. This theory is disproved
by the fact, which may now be regarded as well established, that menstruation and
“heat” cease after ovariotomy,f the small proportion of cases in which they are
said to continue being explained on the hypothesis that the ovaries had not both
been entirely extirpated (cf Knauer, 1899, for Rabbits, and Harpan, 1901, for
Monkeys ; vide also our remarks on this subject below).

In the present place it remains for us to refer to FRAENKEL’s hypothesis (19038),
according to which menstruation is caused by the activity of the corpus luteum.t
This hypothesis is based upon nine cases in which the corpus luteum was destroyed
by the cautery, in eight of which the next menstruation is said to have been missed.
In our opinion FRAENKEL’s theory is disproved by the fact stated above that
ovulation in the Bitch does not occur until cestrus, and consequently that at the
time of the procestrum there are no corpora lutea present in the ovary, for the
corpora lutea formed after one ovulation do not persist until the next heat period
(probably six months after in the Bitch), and cannot, therefore, be responsible for
producing a procestrum several months subsequent to their formation. Hape’s
observations (1897) on the absence of corpora lutea in menstruating Monkeys should
be again noted in this connection.

A case has been recently reported by Rres (1904) in which Fraenxket’s theory
was put to the test. A girl was operated upon for appendicitis. The peritoneal
cavity was found to contain a quantity of blood, but the appendix showed no signs
of recent inflammation. The source of the hemorrhage was found in the left ovary,