are all well marked, although the prolonged diminution of blood-pressure and kidney
volume which immediately resulted from the injection are not usually characteristic
of a first injection of infundibular extract.

Effects of Intravenous Injection of Infundibular Extract.

Before considering in detail the effect which aqueous extract of the posterior lobe
produces upon the kidney secretion it is necessary to draw attention to its peculiar
effects upon the heart and blood-vessels. That it produces a general constriction of
arterioles leading to considerable elevation of blood-pressure was determined by
Ottver and Scuirer.*  Howern.t confirmed this result, and showed that it is
confined to extracts of the posterior lobe. He further found that the elevation of
blood-pressure occurs in spite of the fact that the heart may be markedly inhibited
and the pulse far slower during the action of the extract; he determined this
inhibition to be a peripheral effect, since it continues even with the vagi cut. But
the most interesting fact observed by HoweEtt is the immunity which a first dose of
any magnitude} confers, so that if a second dose is injected intravenously within a
given time—about 30 to 60 minutes, depending upon the amount of active material
used for the first injection—no second rise of blood-pressure or accompanying cardio-
inhibitory effect is produced, The results obtained by Howktt were confirmed by
Scuirer and Vincent.§ In many eases the rise of blood-pressure which is character-
istic of the first injection of pituitary extract is preceded by a slight fall of pressure.
When a second and succeeding doses are given within the period of immunity the
effect. of these doses is not negative, but a well-marked fall of blood-pressure is
produced, far greater as a rule than that which is produced by aqueous decoction