the subject, that the above arguments are not based upon some isolated example of
these Lepidodendroid plauts. My specimens show that the conditions to which I am
once more calling attention are not isolated or rare. They are characteristic of the
entire Lepidodendroid family, whether arborescent or otherwise. Throughout the
entire group we know that the large dichotomous branches did not shoot into existence
as such. They were all once slender twigs, and I am convinced that such series of
sections as abound in my cabinet, corresponding to those now represented in my
figures 7-15, are illustrations of twigs and branches of the same plant in successive
stages of their growth.

I should also like to remark on the objection that in this and some of the preceding
Memoirs I am in danger of establishing new species without sufficiently defining
them. In fact, the establishment of species of Coal-plants in the strict sense of the
word has not been my object. â€˜The difficulties in the way of doing this are, in my
judgment, insuperable. In the earlier of this series of Memoirs I made no attempt to
attach specific names to the objects which I described. I mainly sought to throw new
light upon the morphology and histology of the Carboniferous plants. I soon found
that, whilst one type of structure was common to the entire group of Lepidodendroid
and Sigillarian plants, this type was subject tu numerous remarkable modifications as
regarded the details alike of structure and of growth. It became necessary, by some
symbol, to facilitate reference to each of these modifications. There was no room for
doubting that where such details were conspicuously different I was dealing with
forms that were specifically distinct. But the converse was not necessarily true. It
was quite possible, though incapable of demonstration, that identical modifications of
