of Polygordius, as a number of cells about the cesophagus and sides of the stomach.
In the majority of these forms it is highly probable it can be divided, as TorREY
has described for Thalassema, into a median unpaired, and right and left lateral
portions. The median portion arises in the vicinity of the cross cells from the
ectoderm, the right and left portions also being ectodermal. In Pomatoceros and
Eupomatus, as I hope to show in a future paper of the present series, it is distinctly
divided into these three portions. In them the right and left parts give rise to
the right and left head-kidneys of the Trochophore. I believe that these portions
are represented in Polygordius by the nephridia rudiments, which in origin and
growth are directly comparable with the head-kidneys of the Trochophore larva.
These organs, in the Polygordius and the Trochophore larvee, are so similar in
growth, step for step, that there can hardly be any doubt that they are homologous
structures. In fact, the head-kidney strands in Pomatoceros so closely agree in
arrangement with the lateral portions of the larval mesoblast of Thalassema, that
Torreyâ€™s (21) fig. 8 might do to illustrate certain stages in the development of
Pomatoceros. It is not unfair, therefore, to hold that the head-kidney strands of
Polygordius similarly represent lateral portions of the ectomesoblast. Some
confirmation of this view is, perhaps, to be found in the way the head-kidney
strands arise, a mode of origin so characteristic of the mesenchyme. According to ~
Wotrrreck, the head-kidneys of Polygordius arise from 3c and 3d; the same cells,
Torrey (21) states, in Thalassema give rise to parts of the right and left portions
of the ectomesoblast.

In Eupomatus and Pomatoceros the head-kidneys form from ectomesoblast. In
Eupomatus, the so-called mesoblast bands of HarscueK are no more mesoblast