tubes continue to grow until they reach the surface of the nucellar cone. As they
advance beyond the normal region of fertilisation they broaden and their cytoplasm
becomes much vacuolated. As Karsren* has stated, they may even emerge from the
nucellar tissue into the micropyle.

In the early condition of the tubes the nuclei lie close together (figs. 26, 28, 29).f
Later they usually become separated and are arranged in single file (fig. 31). When
the embryo-sac-tube meets the pollen-tube the leading female nucleus is commonly
considerably in advance of those behind it (eg., fig. 53). During the close
aggregation of the nuclei in the earlier stages irregularities of form are usually
impressed upon them and these are frequently retained up to the time of fertilisation
(cf: fig. 31). In view of the fusion of the nuclei which normally occurs in the multi-
nucleate compartments of the lower part of the sac, the fact that an entirely similar
fusion of all nuclei of an embryo-sac-tube may exceptionally occur is of very great
interest. Two such cases are shown in figs. 30, A and B. In the former about six
nuclei seem to have participated in the fusion; in the latter the number was
probably smaller.

The nuclei of fig. 31 are ready for fertilisation. It is to be emphasised that no
nuclear divisions have intervened between the stages of figs. 22 and 31; in other
words, the functional female nuclei, although differing in size and to some extent also
in staining capacity, are identical with those which occupy the micropylar end of the
sac of fig. 21. In most cases there is nothing to indicate that the cytoplasm
immediately associated with the nuclei of the embryo-sac-tube has undergone any
special degree of organisation ; rarely, however, a thin envelope stains more deeply