Fig. 35, Plate 8, shows a photomicrograph of a transverse section through the
posterior portion of the archenteric (HeNsEn’s) knot, a short distance behind the
blastopore. Here the limitation and comparative isolation of the knot-tissue from its
ectodermal surroundings is apparent. Fig. 100, Plate 17, illustrates a section passing
through the blastoporie aperture itself, and fig. 101 another section 0:09 millim, in
front of the latter. Here the originally transversely extended archenteric lumen is
represented by two canals, forming so-called “ duplex chorda-canals.” This double
character is not continued in any constant fashion throughout the serial sections.
The lumen is more often single, sometimes double, and frequently obliterated
altogether. The lumination of the archenteron is upon the whole, however, more
complete and pronounced than in the earlier stage represented by Specimens P and E.
This is evident on comparison of the text-figs. 10-12. We are inclined to attribute
this fact to mere diminution in quantity of the cellular material of the archenteron in
the later stage, so that compression of the lumen is to a large extent absent.
Obliteration of the lumen, or reduction from an actual to a virtual lumen indicated
only by a line, is a common accompaniment of the more massive cellular development
of the walls of the intact archenteron in the earlier epoch. It is easy to understand
how a cessation of active cellular proliferation at a later period might result in an
opening up or reopening and widening of the narrower actual or potential lumen
occurring in the antecedent period.

Comparison of fig. 101 with figs. 52 and 53, and 59-62, will suffice to carry con-
viction as to the essentially similar character of the underlying structural conditions.

0 2