England is rarely so much as an inch thick, though removable from the chalk in
plates of a foot or more in area, The Ightham industry was largely determined
in form and character by this tabular form of much of the flint used. Though there
is nothing like close coincidence between the East Anglian and Kent Plateau
industry, yet in the “ borers” and trinacrial (shoulder of mutton) implements of the
high plateau gravels, a similarity in design to the rostro-carinate flints of East Anglia,
modified by the difference in form and quality of the raw material, can be traced.

On the other hand, we have, in the well-known broad acutely-pointed flakes of the
Moustierian period, an example of the prevalence of a comparatively simply worked
flint implement at a period succeeding one in which most elaborately chipped,
symmetrical implements of large size—the Acheuilian—were the predominant type.
It seems to me that this can be explained by the fact that the makers of the finest
Acheuilian implements (the great triquetro-hastate flattened forms) had developed
too great an artistry in their work, They spent time and skill in the mere pleasure
of chipping an implement beautifully and giving it perfect shape. The Moustierian
men show a reaction from this, Their typical acutely pointed ovate implements are
not over elaborated but struck out with a masterly touch. The whole of one surface
is made by a single blow, carrying away the piece required, which is already flaked
on its outer face by the previous removal of similar pieces. The point is already
shaped at the opposite end to the bulb of percussion, All that has to be done is to
notch (in some cases) the very sharp edge of the large flake-like piece by saw-like
toothing. Fifty such implements could be made whilst an Acheulian workman was
labouring at one of his highly finished large implements. There is, it seems to me,
here, at the later period, simplification of workmanship with increased efficiency—