appears as a set of unsupported statements, and the reader must be referred to the
earlier paper for the evidence upon which they are based :—

The short forms, 13 to 20 microns in length, are the “adult” blood type—this
term being used to indicate that the form in question has the longest duration in
time in the endogenous cycle, and appears to be the type from which the individuals
capable of carrying on the cycle in the invertebrate host are derived. The blood of a
monkey is infective to Glossina only so long as this form is present in sufficient
numbers and in an appropriate physiological state—i.e., not suffering from the
exhaustion which seems to overtake the flagellates at certain times in very numerous
infections. From these short forms there arise by growth the intermediate indi-
viduals, which are an ill-defined and quite artificial group, chiefly to be recognised by
the fact that they have increased in length and have a longer free flagellum, but are
of much the same average breadth as the short forms, namely, 2 to 2°5 microns. The
long slender forms are derived from the intermediate type, and are simply the next
step towards the division forms, which are the culminating stage of this whole
process. The long slender forms are the individuals about to divide. It is incorrect
to speak of three types of trypanosome ; strictly speaking, it is a somewhat arbitrary
attachment of names to the different stages by which the short forms proceed to
division. The products of division give rise once more, directly or indirectly, as the
case may be, to the adult type.

Another feature equally well known in the history of 7. gambiense is the fluctuation
in the number of trypanosomes to be seen in the blood. This has also been treated
exhaustively elsewhere ; it suffices to say here that a complex of circumstances,