turned wall of this vesicle forms the lens, and the remainder the retina. The
apparent formation of a double optic cup, sometimes seen in advanced embryos, is due
simply to the development of a shrinkage cavity in the zone of nerve-fibres which
tends to separate the retina into two layers. I have already (1899, b) insisted upon
the absence of a true optic cup, comparable to that of the lateral eyes, in the pineal
eye, but it seems necessary to do so again as I have been made responsible for a
somewhat misleading figure in the latest edition of W1EDERSHEIM’s ‘ Comparative
Anatomy.’

The separation between the lens and the retina is remarkably sharply defined in
the adult, considering that both are formed from an originally continuous and
uninterrupted layer, the wall of the optic vesicle. The distinction between the two
is emphasised by the fact that the retina gradually thins out to almost a sharp edge
as it approaches the lens, and this edge meets a somewhat similar edge which marks
the junction between the outer and inner surfaces of the lens. The cavity of the
optic vesicle has the form of a deep cup, and the lens may be compared to a stopper
placed in its mouth (figs. 2, 3, 7).

The differentiation of the wall of the optic vesicle into lens and retina takes place
at a remarkably early stage of development. It may commence even before the two
pineal outgrowths have separated from one another, which occurs at about Stage O
(fig. 30). At this stage and immediately after the separation of the two outgrowths
(fig. 31) the optic vesicle is a somewhat flattened sac lying between the roof of the
brain and the superficial epiblast, between which it appears to be compressed,
although a little mesoblast is already present between the superficial epiblast and