chromosomes. He finds that these bodies are smaller in the spermatid than in the
corresponding oétid, but that by the time the first cleavage occurs the two sets of
maternally and paternally derived chromosomes are similar in size. He attributes
this to the circumstance that “both grow, after fertilisation, in the same medium,
the egg plasma, and for approximately the same length of time.” This explanation,
however, appears to be incomplete, inasmuch as it ignores the initial difference in
size. It is not immediately obvious why the initial disparity should disappear at all.

We think the observations of our own detailed above, taken together with those
of other observers, support the contention that the chromosomes possess an individu-
ality of their own, and that they do not merely represent discrete lumps of a common
substance. That they may break up into smaller units or be temporarily united into
larger ones constitutes no serious objection to this opinion, nor does the fact that their
size can be affected by nutritive conditions obtaining within the cell touch the
question at all. It merely proves that they, like other living organisms or parts
of organisms, may be influenced in various ways by their environment ; that they
react in various ways to physical stimuli. ‘The remarkable experiments of Bovert,
Nemec and others are difficult to explain on any other hypothesis, and we think that
the examples of the Primulas may be taken as evidence pointing to the same
conclusions. We know of no kind of mechanism which, otherwise, could maintain the
relative numbers, sizes, and forms of the chromosomes with such definiteness and
constancy, and nearly all the work of recent years has only served to emphasise
chromosomal individuality.

Unfortunately we know practically nothing about the phylogeny of chromosomes.