Triassic), one sees how close the parallel really is. Our pines, however, must have
come from forms which had a branch in the axil of every leaf, and the living
Araucarinez fail in this respect, though the deciduous branches are more numerous
than in any other group of the Conifers, The recently described Mesoxylon Sutcliffii
is a form which has in it the possibility of meeting this, since every leaf so far
observed has a bud in its axil.* In M. multiramet there is a branch in the axil of
nearly every leaf. The deciduous branch is one method by which the Conifers overcame
the persistent foliage habit of the ancestral forms, when adapting themselves to more
modern climatic conditions. The other and more usual was by the foliage itself
becoming deciduous, as it has done toa marked degree in all the other Conifers except
the Araucarinex, and even to some extent in all these and to a great extent in many
of them. That the persistent habit is the ancestral one in the Araucarinez is clear
from two facts. For one, I am again indebted to Dr. Eamrs, who has observed that
the leaves persist longer on young than on mature trees. This is the more evident
in those species whose mature leaves persist for only a very few years (e.g. Agathis
australis and Araucaria Bidwillii), The other point is the practically indefinite
persistence of the leaf trace (see Section 3c) in the Araucarinee, especially significant
being its persistence in the forms which shed their leaves comparatively early.

There is also evidence that the persistent habit is the ancestral one in the other
modern Conifers: In the deciduous forms, e.g. Larix, the leaves remain attached in
the young plant for several years, and in the ordinary evergreen species there is an
accentuated persistence of the leaves in the young forms and on the main axis as
well. Another indication is in the persistence of the leaves on the spur shoot. In
the living pines the foliage may clothe the branches for 10-15 years.{ Especially