noted, however, that here, as in his other experiments, no note is made that
the proximal segment of the external popliteal had been stimulated to prove the
absence of reunion of, this with its own distal segment.

Tn commenting on his results he says: ‘In facio-accessory anastomosis it would be
wise to split the latter nerve into two strands, injuring the actual nerve fibres as
little as possible. One of these should be attached to the distal cut end of the
facial, and the other to the whole of its own distal end. This would abolish
associated movements of the shoulder, or, at any rate, reduce it to a very small
amount, for a few fibres at the angle of splitting would possibly be injured,
resulting in their growing down the nerves to both sets of muscle.” In this
connection it may be pointed out that this prediction, founded on theoretical
explanations of the experimental findings, has been refuted by the fact that the
association movements are found to be present, although the whole of the spinal-
accessory was attached to the distal segment of the facial, as in a case published by
Cusuine (11), making it thus impossible that the associated movements were the
consequence of this alleged axon splitting, as in such circumstances there could be no
possibility of axon branches reaching the distal segment of the spinal-accessory.

The principle involved in nerve crossing may be tested, not by disturbing the actual
nerve trunks themselves, but by altering the attachments of the muscles to which
these nerves are distributed. This has been carried out as a remedial procedure
in the human subject, in order to bring about improvement where one of an
antagonistic pair of muscle groups has become paralysed by a lesion of its nerve
supply. Such a condition is commonly brought about in man by a lesion in the