alveolar air, To think of anything else but breathing, or to interrupt the breathing
for even a moment, was quite out of the question. At the end of a short effort of
this kind one could only stand in a stooping position and breathe for dear life.

On examining the respiratory quotients, as calculated from the composition of the
alveolar air in Tables II. to IV., it will be noticed that the quotients are usually
below 0°8, and occasionally below even 0°7. These values are evidently not true
respiratory quotients, as they are too low. Thus for Doveas the true respiratory
quotient, as given by the bag experiments on Pike’s Peak, averaged 0°833, whereas
the alveolar quotients averaged only ‘791. From numerous experiments, which will
be described more fully elsewhere, we have convinced ourselves that the ratio of
deficiency of oxygen to excess of CO, is higher in the alveolar than in the expired
air. The cause of this phenomenon is doubtless the fact that in the smaller
bronchioles and so-called “respiratory bronchioles” the conditions for giving off of
CO, are, on account of its greater solubility, more favourable than for the absorption
of oxygen when these parts are filled with pure air at each inspiration. The want of
correspondence between the true and the “alveolar” respiratory quotient must, of
course, add to the other sources of error, already mentioned, in the method of
calculating the alveolar oxygen percentage from the composition of the expired air.

Experiments on the alveolar air during and after exertion were made as follows.
Portions of the cog railway track were selected, and during and after the hyperpnoea
produced by walking along or up the track for varying periods and on varying
gradients samples of the alveolar air were collected and analysed. In some
experiments the samples were taken straight into the gas analysis apparatus, which