that should be answered in the affirmative; although, so far as I can find, all the
Continental and many of the English naturalists think the opposite—a view, however,
that, although easy and obvious at first sight, I cannot for one moment believe to be
correct. When we consider that in every character of their organisation the
Marsupials are infinitely behind and at a lower stage of evolution than the Placental
Mammals, it would appear to be a total subversion of all the ordinary rules to
suppose that in this one character of their dentition they should have passed on in
advance of all the other Mammals, and, having gone through the condition in which
the latter now are, should have again nearly evolved away that process of tooth-
change which is to its Placental possessors so evidently advantageous. It would be
to my mind inconceivable that this should be the case, considering how universal
among the Eutheria a more or less complete tooth-change is, and how useful it has
proved to be to them, as evidenced by the very fact of their so wholly supplanting
the more lowly organised Marsupials—more lowly organised in their dental as well as
in their other characters, and not further advanced, as would have to be presumed
were their teeth looked upon as a later development of a fully Diphyodont set.

And again, the mere fact that five out of the six families of Marsupials, natives
both of Australia and America, have, with the comparatively unimportant exceptions
already noted as occurring among the Dasyuride, arrived at precisely the same stage
of tooth-change is itself a very strong argument in favour of the view now advocated ;
for, were the modern tooth-change a remnant of a fuller one, we should naturally
expect that, under the very various conditions of the struggle for existence, equally
various degrees of reduction would have been attained to. On the other hand, we
should be most unlikely to find, as is now the case, more than 90 per cent. of the