Mammals, it would appear to be a total subversion of all the ordinary rules to
suppose that in this one character of their dentition they should have passed on in
advance of all the other Mammals, and, having gone through the condition in which
the latter now are, should have again nearly evolved away that process of tooth-
change which is to its Placental possessors so evidently advantageous. It would be
to my mind inconceivable that this should be the case, considering how universal
among the Eutheria a more or less complete tooth-change is, and how useful it has
proved to be to them, as evidenced by the very fact of their so wholly supplanting
the more lowly organised Marsupialsâ€”more lowly organised in their dental as well as
in their other characters, and not further advanced, as would have to be presumed
were their teeth looked upon as a later development of a fully Diphyodont set.

And again, the mere fact that five out of the six families of Marsupials, natives
both of Australia and America, have, with the comparatively unimportant exceptions
already noted as occurring among the Dasyuride, arrived at precisely the same stage
of tooth-change is itself a very strong argument in favour of the view now advocated ;
for, were the modern tooth-change a remnant of a fuller one, we should naturally
expect that, under the very various conditions of the struggle for existence, equally
various degrees of reduction would have been attained to. On the other hand, we
should be most unlikely to find, as is now the case, more than 90 per cent. of the
existing and fossil Marsupials changing one single tooth, and one only, and the small
remainder merely differing from them in a direction away from and not towards that
fuller tooth-change of which it is said their ancestors were once possessed.

Of the one form of evidence needed to give any weight to the opposite theory,