
In describing the life-cycle in outline, I begin with the earliest stages, which make
their appearance first in the fresh cultures. These are remarkably small forms, very
active, and, until I had obtained stained specimens, I regarded them as short, thick
bacilli. The body-form is elongate-oval, the size of the smallest individuals being
not more than 24, by 1p (figs. 20 and 21). The flagella of these minute forms are
from two to more than three times the length of the body, the longer one representing
the posterior flagellum. At first they arise close together at the anterior end, each
originating from a distinct blepharoplast. Growth goes on rapidly during the two
or three days after these forms appear, no division taking place at this time.
Different stages in growth are seen in figs. 22-25. As the body elongates it
gradually becomes spirally twisted, these individuals at last markedly resembling a
very large spirillum, excepting for the fact that with good illumination the flagella
can be seen. In this phase the creature is obviously the Spivomonas of the older
writers. In this form the body averages about 12-13 » in length by 13-2» in width.
The two flagella do not now arise from the anterior end but from a slight distance
behind, and their points of origin may be separate (though not always). The nucleus
is usually situated about the middle of the body, though it may be nearer to the
hinder end. There is certainly no mouth aperture, and I do not believe nutrition is
ever other than saprozoic. I have never seen individuals containing ingested bacteria.

In the next stage, which I call the “bean” stage, the body is quite different in
appearance. I am not sure yet whether the beans can be developed, in the first
place, directly from the spiral individuals or only after conjugation, but I think it is
likely that the former course can be followed (ef. fig. 26). The beans vary slightly in