that fairly complete lineages of Cretaceous Polyzoa, when followed up, lead to such
massively elaborated forms that further evolution (without resorption of the skeleton)
is hard to imagine, has already forced me to the same conclusion.

(2) “That the starfish may be separated into lineages (‘species series’) which
preserve unbroken continuity during their life-history.” This, in Cretaceous Polyzoa,
is the theme of the present paper.

(3) “ That if the variation of individual characters in a lineage be considered they
are (a) usually of a continuous type, (>) frequently independent of one another.” A
consideration of the Cretaceous Polyzoan lineages described above, and a glance at the
diagrams will verify both these points. The distal pair of avicularia in Pelmatopora,
however, may be cited asa variation discontinuous in its origin. And the fact that the
ancestreecium (the Cheilostome protcecium, or skeleton of the first-formed individual)
of Sandalopora gallica shows a well-developed proximal shield suggests that this may
have arisen discontinuously from the plain apertural bar of a primitive Pelmatopora.
That in their evolution the individual characters in a lineage are largely independent
of one another is a most important consideration and one which a study of the
Pelmatoporinze emphasises. Thus, to take one case out of many, both the lineages of
Pelmatopora, the one containing P. calceata, P. solearis, P. plantaris, P. pero,
P. brydonei, etc., and the other P. gasteri, P. suffulta, P. simplex, are characterised
by an increased elaboration of the intra-terminal front wall; that is, the pelmata move
away from the middle line and secondary pelmata are formed; but, in the first, the
aperture tends to increase in size and pass from longer to broader, and in the other it
tends to decrease in size and hardly alters its comparative length and breadth.