74 DR. W. ROBINSON ON THE MICROSCOPICAL FEATURES OF STRAINS IN

of greatest mechanical rigidity, and of least swelling on the one hand, and the axes
of greatest swelling, of least mechanical rigidity, and of least optical elasticity on the
other, would be identical. This would be in general agreement with the facts
derived from the microscopic appearances of the cell-walls of wood after failure in
compression, in tension and in shearing in a longitudinal direction respectively. It
has already been pointed out, however, that the conception of crystalline micelle as
the ultimate particles of cell-wall substance is not in accord with many modern views
regarding the structure of colloid gels (p. 71). Neither is the micellar conception
necessary to explain the facts described above for wood. It seems to me that a
mechanical hypothesis of the structure and properties of the colloidal cell-wall
explains all the known facts.

The salient points of the alternative hypothesis of cell-wall structure, which I have
been led to propose from this study of the minute mechanical properties of the
cell-walls of wood, will now be outlined. The cell-wall in plants has usually been
regarded as a secretion product of the protoplasm. On the basis of modern views of
surface energy and adsorption, it is conceivable, however, that the membrane in
vegetable cells arises, first, by the accumulation of pectic substances, and then of
cellulose, at the surface bounding the protoplasm. This accumulation at the surface
would occur passively, as the substances arose in the protoplasm by reason of their
capacity to reduce the surface energy of the protoplasm according to the Grpps-
THomeson law. The cellulose, thus accumulating at the protoplasmic boundaries in
the growth of the membrane, will be in the condition of a highly viscous fluid, but,