tubercles.

However, with larger and more intimate acquaintance with the ambulacra of most
families of Echinoidea, Regular and Irregular, I have reached the conclusion that
both of the apparently contradictory explanations of complexity are correct.” The
distortion and reduction of plates is, in its inception at least, due to ‘“ growth-
pressure” in Duncan’s sense. But distortion and reduction does not, of itself,
produce compound plates. These are associations of reduced or unreduced, com-
pressed or uncompressed, plates which are usually, and always primitively, grouped
around, and bound together by, one or more large tubercles. Simple “ growth-
pressure” may cause the resorption and modification of stereom to almost any extent,
but seems not to affect the thickness of interstitial sutural tissue. Indeed, if this
organic film is instrumental in the growth of the plates (an undoubted fact), it will
also be employed as an agent of resorption, and so must be maintained if the plates
are undergoing’that process. In compounds this placogenous membrane becomes so
attenuated that the stereom of contiguous components is practically continuous.
Indeed, near the peristome, all traces of sutures are often destroyed, a development
analogous to “ syzygy” uniting the compounds into apparently homogeneous plates.

Reverting to the principle of ambulacral development traced in Section 1 above, it
may be stated that plate-crushing has for its chief purpose the accommodation of
great numbers of podia within pore-fields of limited length, and incidentally the
displacement of the pore-pairs from a straight line. On the other hand, plate-
combination is designed to strengthen the intrinsically weak ambulacral areas, by a
reduction of sutural tissue and a binding together of the several plates. It is clear