Rhexoxylon tends to show that there was originally a solid ring of secondary
centrifugal wood, which was ruptured by a considerable development of secondary
tissues in the perimedullary region. The critical point is whether this secondary
growth was centred round primary groups or not, in other words, whether the
perimedullary developments are steles or mere excrescences of secondary tissues.
The evidence seems to be in favour of the latter hypothesis. First, there is no
evidence of any mixed pith in the perimedullary “steles” ; secondly, there is
evidence in favour of the view that they were formed subsequently to the outer
wood sectors; thirdly, there is a marked variability in different parts of the same
stem (J?. tetrapteridoides); and fourthly, there is a very close resemblance in
structural features, e.g., the centripetal “ partial steles” (Plate 6, 13, d’, d’) and the
adventitious strands, w, are very much alike. If we assume that Mheworylon is
a case of parallel evolution of liane stem structure, then other facts support the
hypothesis that the perimedullary “steles” are entirely secondary structures. As
already mentioned, in Wilbrandia, meristems arising in the perimedullary region do
give rise to secondary xylem. CuHopar* also describes adventitious vascular strands
in the perimedullary region of Dowantha (Bignonia) unguis. It is interesting not
only to note that in Dowantha the adventitious strand is in close relation with the
protoxylem of the normal wood, but to compare its position with the position of the
small centripetal strands on the inner faces of the main sectors in FR. africanum
(text-fig. III, 1, 2, 3 and 4). The shape of the inner series of perimedullary
developments in F. africanum resembles very closely indeed the pericyclic develop-
ments in Paullinia,

The question of the nature of the strands passing out between the sectors is one