blood-vessel rudiments except by reference to their subsequent history, seems to me
to afford a most important indication of the original identity of the two systems;
when to this is added the similarity in the mode of development of the lymph and
blood vessels in the embryo, and also the facts shown by a comparative study of
their anatomy in the adult, there seems reason to suppose that the lymphatic system
(whether we adopt the Sasin or McCuure interpretation of its ontogeny) at the
inception of its phylogenetic evolution formed an integral part of the blood-vascular
system.

Whether the further assumption that this modified part of the blood-vascular system
before the onset of its specialisation for a lymph-carrying function comprised both
arteries and veins is a justifiable one is a problem of greater difficulty. If Sapm’s
interpretation of the facts of the early ontogeny are correct and the evolving
lymphatics were direct outgrowths from veins already in existence, there seems to be
no special reason to suppose that such outgrowths designed from the first for a
centripetal circulation only, should carry with them in their growth towards the
periphery complementary arterial branches for which there would be no use. Should,
however, the lymphatics be a specialised part of a primitive blood-vascular system,
it is highly probable that whilst the coming lymphatics were still blood carriers—in
a condition, that is, represented in ontogeny by the “ hemophoric ’ stage—they
would include in their circulation both afferent and efferent channels.

The probability that this was so and that such a double circulation persisted to some
extent even after the lymphatic system was well established, is borne out by the
observation made by Jourpars and Mayer (10, 11) of an afferent and efferent