Now, it would seem that Winson’s discovery that Ornithorhynchus has a palatine
process of the premaxilla, in addition to the dumb-bell-shaped bone, led to a change
in Broom’s views, when he stated (1902a, p. 551) “it seems much more satisfactory
to regard it (i.e., the palatine process of the premaxilla) as a true portion of the
premaxilla which has replaced an anterior vomerine element, such as the dumb-bell
bone of Ornithorhynchus, than to regard it itself as the homologue of that bone.”
However, it seems to me that there is a way in which these views can be reconciled.

On turning to Lacerta, it can be seen that the prevomers extend posteriorly parallel
to one another, in front they taper to a point and die out behind the premaxilla, with
which they do not fuse. Their relation to the paraseptal cartilages is such as to
suggest very strongly that they are homologous with the palatine process of the
premaxilla in mammals, and this resemblance is increased by the fact that in some
lizards according to Gaupp (1906), the prevomers fuse with one another, like the
dumb-bell-shaped bone of Ornithorhynchus. It is obvious that the efficiency of the
prevomer as a structural support for the paraseptal cartilage and Jacopson’s organ
will be increased if it becomes attached to some other firm bony element such as the
premaxilla. The backgrowth of a process from the premaxilla, such as Winson (1901)
describes in Ornithorhynchus, is just what would be expected. It seems, therefore,
that the coexistence of what Wrson called the palatine process of the premaxilla with
the dumb-bell-shaped bone in Ornithorhnychus is not to be taken to mean that the bone
which BLAnD-SurTon (1884) called the palatine process of the premaxilla (PARKER’s
‘anterior vomer,” 1885; Fawcerrr’s paraseptal process, 1921), in higher mammals,
is not the homologue of the prevomer. The palatine process of the premaxilla in
Ornithorhynchus is in an intermediate condition between the reptile where prevomer