has the form of a well-defined thick layer composed of columnar cells. Traced medially
this thick endoderm passes into a more or less definitely localised cell-mass, which
projects upwards from the endoderm, and on the left side appears like a fold of the
latter, since there is present in it an indistinct cleft-like lumen. We have to do here
with two paraxial thickenings in which mesoderm is being proliferated from endoderm.
These thickenings are also visible in fig. 57 and on the left side in fig. 58, and they
can be traced forwards from fig. 56 into continuity with the prochordal plate, so
that in reality they have the form of paraxial bands, connected cranially by the pro-
chordal plate.

Our last figure through this embryo (fig. 55, Plate 34) passes through the middle of
the prochordal plate, which is readily distinguishable from the columnar embryonal
endoderm adjoining its lateral margins by its more irregular character, and by the fact
that it consists of a thinner axial portion uniting two distinct lateral thickenings. These
latter are similar in character to the paraxial bands noted in fig. 56. They can be
traced caudally in the series into direct continuity with them, whilst cranially the
prochordal plate loses its bilateral character and appears as a single thickening.

The relations of the lateral mesodermal bands to the chorda-canal in this Loris
embryo, as briefly set forth above, lead us to the conclusion that the cranial segment
of the head-process in the Loris embryo, as in the human, undergoes differentiation in
the caudo-cranial direction into a median chorda-canal and two lateral mesodermal
bands. On the assumption that the head-process is archenteric (metenteric) in
significance, these bands may be regarded as representing cephalic mesoderm of direct
archenteric (metenteric) origin (so-called “ gastral” mesoderm). It is perhaps not