
In passing from one to the other of the four cerebella as seen from the lateral surface,
the middle lobe of both Echidna and Platypus resembles that of the pigeon more than it
does that of the opossum. ‘There are no lateral hemispheres. The folia are continued
latero-ventrally until they merge into a band, the pons, like the sides of a corrugated
bonnet, ending in strings and tied around the medulla. Only the opossum shows any
structural character which might be interpreted as a means of differentiation between
medial and lateral parts of the middle lobe of the cerebellum. Although this lobe shows
what might be taken to be a greater differentiation, nevertheless it does not contain
more tissue than the same region so formed in Echidna or Platypus—a morphological
differentiation unaccompanied by increase in size. Indeed, the middle of either of the
monotremes shows a higher degree of foliation than does this marsupial. Such a differ-
ence could be correlated with the fact that the monotremes use their limbs in a bi-
lateral manner, while the opossum is able to manipulate his hand-like paws unilaterally.

If we apply the criterion for the identification of the pyramis as the first cerebellar
folia to be continued laterally into the paraflocculus, then the fissure anterior to it will
be the suleus prepyramidalis and the one posterior, the fissura secunda. We have,
therefore, the landmark of the anterior boundary of the posterior lobe of ExxtoT Smrrx,
or if we include the pyramis, then the posterior lobe of INevar. Certainly, when this
region is examined in the opossum and in the pigeon we are struck with the advisability
of [yavar’s classification, because in the first embryonic lobulation and the subsequent
adult morphology, the pyramis falls more naturally as a lobule to be placed with the
uvula and nodulus. In Platypus this relationship, although as clear, falls more
easily into Exiior Smrrx’s because the fissura secunda is so deep, although it may be