Their investing syncytial layer at the same time, with or without previous thickening,
passes into direct continuity with a quite irregular discontinuous layer of syncytio-
trophoblast which lies on thesurface of theendometrial tissue and sends prolongations into
the same (PI. 10, fig. 62). Over a narrow zone, round the periphery of the intervillous
space, it appears as a relatively thin, uniform layer which passes above into continuity
with the syncytiotrophoblast of the chorion, but over the rest of the floor it takes the
form of a quite irregular layer, which in places is coarsely vacuolated or reticular in
character. Moreover, it is not everywhere perfectly continuous, there being small areas
where the endometrial tissue directly bounds the intervillous space. It contains sparse
nuclei, varying in size but mostly large, ovalish and vesicular.

That this peripheral syncytial layer possesses invasive and cytolytic properties is
clearly indicated by the fact that processes of it penetrate into the underlying endo-
metrial tissue and by the characters of the latter. As can be seen in Pl. 10, fig. 62, the
narrow superficial zone of endometrial tissue underlying the syncytial layer presents
quite a different appearance to that of the deep zone, being less uniform, looser and
distinctly cedematous in character.

In it there are present numbers of enlarged capillaries, the endothelial walls of which
are more or less altered. Adjacent to the intervillous space, the endothelium has largely
disappeared with the result that the capillary lumina are in more or less free com-
munication with that space through the gaps in the peripheral syncytium, whilst the
more deeply situated endothelium has hypertrophied to form an irregular layer of large
ovoidal or irregularly cubical cells, many of them in process of degeneration. In the
large capillary (cp.') which lies directly below the central villus in Pl. 10, fig. 62, the endo-