more posterior.

Piarr’s view was contested by Parrerson (1907) and Hupparp (1908), both of
whom investigated the problem experimentally. The former opened eggs at a stage
when only one mesodermic intersomitic cleft was present, made a mark with a needle
just anterior to that cleft, and was then able to show that after further incubation
to stages varying from 8 somites to 25 somites, the mark appeared in the so-called
rudimentary (7.e., anterior) somite. This was confirmed by Husparn’s work, which
proceeded on similar lines. From these results the authors inferred that no somite,
except the incomplete one, was formed anterior to the first cleft, and Parrerson
suggested that Pxarr had incorrectly interpreted certain shallow and transitory
depressions in the “ unsegmented mesoderm” anterior to the somites, and had been
further misled by the fact that the first two or three clefts are not completed until
the 6- or 7-somite stage. These conclusions have been adopted by Lixuim in his
well-known text-book (1908).

It has here been shown that the first metotic somite disappears early, and this
implies that the “ anterior”? somite of Parrerson must be regarded as the second
metotic somite, for it was described by him up to as late a stage as 25 somites. At
this stage in the duck, the first metotic somite has long since disappeared, and it
seems unlikely that conditions in the chick would be so profoundly different. As a
matter of fact, JaceR (1924) has described in the chick a rudimentary first metotic
somite resembling in its relations the corresponding somite in the duck, and there
can be little doubt but that conditions in the two forms are essentially similar. It
would seem that both Parrerson and Miss Hupparp overlooked this first metotic