except the incomplete one, was formed anterior to the first cleft, and Parrerson
suggested that Pxarr had incorrectly interpreted certain shallow and transitory
depressions in the “ unsegmented mesoderm” anterior to the somites, and had been
further misled by the fact that the first two or three clefts are not completed until
the 6- or 7-somite stage. These conclusions have been adopted by Lixuim in his
well-known text-book (1908).

It has here been shown that the first metotic somite disappears early, and this
implies that the “ anterior”? somite of Parrerson must be regarded as the second
metotic somite, for it was described by him up to as late a stage as 25 somites. At
this stage in the duck, the first metotic somite has long since disappeared, and it
seems unlikely that conditions in the chick would be so profoundly different. As a
matter of fact, JaceR (1924) has described in the chick a rudimentary first metotic
somite resembling in its relations the corresponding somite in the duck, and there
can be little doubt but that conditions in the two forms are essentially similar. It
would seem that both Parrerson and Miss Hupparp overlooked this first metotic
somite because their methods were not calculated to detect a later-developing somite
which was both rudimentary and transient. Their observations are, nevertheless, of
great importance in tracing the history of the somites prior to the 7-somite stage.
In these earliest stages the auditory placode is absent, and it is impossible on morpho-
logical grounds to identify with certainty any given somite, and correspondingly
impossible to determine in what order these somites develop. The experimental work
shows, however, that the second metotic somite develops in front of that intersomitic
mesodermic cleft which appears first in time, and that the transitory first metotic
somite must therefore develop later than that second somite.