much can be seen by transparency is that of five anda halfdays. However, after this
stage emphasis shifts naturally from plexuses to definitive vessels, and indeed in
any later stage it would be an almost impossible task to describe every capillary
in the head. Nevertheless, it has been found possible to recognize the antecedent
plexus of many vessels which arise subsequent to five and a half days, although
they are not represented in the reconstructions. Moreover, in the latter, a
plexiform vessel is represented in the same manner as a definitive artery or vein.
Due recognition of these differences, however, is made in the text.

In the reconstruction of the five and a half day chick, fig. 8, Plate 4, it will be
seen that the mandibular and maxillary rami of the external carotid are essentially
the same as in the four and a half day stage, but that they point forwards instead
of downwards. This is correlated with the fact that at this time the mandibular
arches swing forwards and come to lie inside the maxilla. In a six and a half
day embryo, chondrification of the visceral skeleton has taken place, and the
relationship of the two rami of the external carotid to the “ hyoid apparatus ” can
readily be made out. The junction of maxillary and mandibular rami is medial
to the ceratobranchial, along the dorsal edge of which the mandibular ramus runs
forward for some distance. The ceratobranchial then joins the basibranchials, and
the mandibular ramus then takes a more ventral course, joining everywhere with a
superficial plexus in the tongue rudiment, the forerunner of the lingual artery.

By the six and a half day stage, however, the secondary external carotid root has
been established, sec.ext.c.rt., fig. 14, Plate 7. It was mentioned above that this
is originally a tiny branch of the dorsal carotid behind the root of the stapedial