function, the vessels supplying the greater functioning area are derived from those
supplying the primitive area.”

The most immediate criticism of SHELLSHEAR’s angiological philosophy which
suggests itself is that these ideas do not harmonize with what is known of the
development of the vascular system. In the first place, although the variability in
arterial distribution, due to the condensation of the arteries of intermediate
distribution into links between the arteries of supply and the main arteries of the
body along a number of alternate paths, harmonizes very well with what is known
concerning the development of definitive vessels from capillary plexus, it would be
exceedingly difficult to demonstrate embryologically the “‘ vessel-end organ unit.”’*
The writer feels that SHELLSHEAR’s conception of a segmental artery is at variance
with the facts of development. In the first place, these vessels are not segmental,
but intersomitic. Secondly, that they do not owe their position to any “ will to
segmentation ” on the part of the embryo, but to the fact that when they arise, and
for a considerable period to come, the somites are non-vascular areas, and the only
possible sites of vessels distributing arterial blood to the dorsal region of the body
are in between the somites. Where blood vessels are arranged metamerically, the
somites are responsible for this arrangement ; thus in a six day chick, where a
capillary plexus spreads outwards from the intersomitic vessels into the region
lateral to the somites, it does so entirely without any reference to the somites. Again,
as soon as the cephalic somites become indistinct, the intersomitic vessels in that
region lose their definition also.

SHELLSHEAR, indeed, hedges on the question whether the head region is to be