special facts could be adduced in its support, beyond the calculation that the
magnitude of the selective forces in operation was of an order likely to have been
effective. Several remarkable facts were, however, soon adduced by a number of
different geneticists which strongly confirmed the view that dominance had in
special cases, most notably, perhaps, in the polymorphic species, been modified so
as to allow the heterozygote to resemble the more advantageous of the two
homozygotes, and so to give dominance to the characters of the latter. This
evidence has been summarized elsewhere (FisHer, 1930, 1931).

The existence of a theory of the evolution of dominance naturally gave special
interest to the apparent exception exhibited by poultry. In 1929 the author put
forward the tentative suggestion that the contrast was not so absolute as had been
thought. The facts that, in addition to reputed dominants, poultry also
exhibited, like other species, complete recessives, such as silky feathers and recessive
white coloration ; and also lethals having a visible effect when heterozygous, such
as “ dumpy” ; and that the reputed dominants were definite breed characteristics
belonging, for the most part or always, to long-established varieties, made it seem
not improbable that human selection had played a part in producing the situations
discovered by poultry geneticists. One circumstance in particular suggested a
reason why in this species, rather than in others, human selection should have had
this effect.

Man has, from the earliest times, valued and esteemed striking peculiarites in his
domestic animals, and they have often been regarded with religious veneration,
as, for example, the sacred white elephant, and the Apis bull, which was recognized,