

DISTRIBUTION OF PROGENY BY A CHALCID 315

none of these differences is capable of independent existence apart from all the other
characters of the host condition, for apparently a complex such as that of the remains
of the gipsy moth larva remains is what it is in virtue of its relations with the advanced
Ooencyrtus larva. Thus it seems that one should recognize that the various host con-
ditions are self-contained units and that the Ooencyrtus female reacts to complexes such
as the gipsy moth egg, gipsy moth egg containing a parasite larva, etc. To relate the
behaviour to anything less is to relate it to abstractions which do not exist, as such,
in nature. Thompson (1937) states that in the case of the Tachinid Compsilura concinnata
and its hosts, the “latter have in common practically nothing but the fact that they are
attacked by Compsilura and that they are all ‘caterpillars’—a term to which, however,
no definition can be attached that is not applicable to the forms not attacked by the
parasite”. However, the relationship Compsilura—caterpillar is a perfectly valid bio-
logical concept of a general tendency in host selection by this parasite, much as the
statement that the passage of steam over heated metals will give metallic oxides
expresses a general chemical tendency. As both hosts and parasite are restricted in
distribution by climatic and other factors, the behaviour of Compsilura and host A,
host B (not any caterpillar) is tolerably determinate. In this respect it is interesting
to note that Flanders (1937) has found that with the polyphagous egg parasite, T7vicho-
gramma, the natural hosts of the different species were fewer than the suitable hosts
(determined in artificial conditions) and that the groupings of hosts found in different
habitats—arboreal, field and marsh—were usually parasitized by only one species of