chromosome on the same scale in fig. 62. The best possible optical apparatus has been
used for these last photographs, the lens being a Zeiss apochromat. 1-4 as opposed to
the Zeiss apochromat. 1-3 previously used. The depth of focus is thereby diminished,
hence the need for two exposures to contain all parts of the chromosome thread. The
increased resolving power has not revealed any further interpretable details of
structure, but as a demonstration of length these photographs are very striking. The
pachytene chromosome at this magnification measures 102 mm., while the leptotene
specimen measures 155 mm. This is a ratio of approximately 100 : 150.*

Whilst all allowance must be made for the undesirability of using a unique specimen
as evidence, it is still difficult to resist the conclusion that the testimony of these
photographs is trustworthy. All obvious objections have been examined carefully and
will be considered in the discussion, but no facts have so far been found which could
be interpreted as incompatible with the above results. Whilst recognizing that further
confirmation is desirable the measurements will therefore be provisionally accepted.

But this result, if true, leads to some very important conclusions. It has already
been shown that a somatic chromosome at its fullest extension is equivalent in length
to a chromosome at pachytene. It would now appear that as a preliminary to pairing
the meiotic chromosome, during preleptotene, not only stretches out the 14 coils
retained from the previous division but also experiences a genuine increase in length
of the order of 50%. It therefore follows, of necessity, that the act of chromosome
pairing itself, the central fact of meiosis, must be carried out when the chromosomes
are in quite an exceptional state. The length attained as a preliminary to pairing has
no counterpart at any point in the mitotic cycle, and this statement may well express