quiescent. Following from one to six injections, counts were made of the total number of
mitoses present in the germinal epithelium of one ovary from each animal, and the results
so obtained are given in table 4. The variation in the response of the different mice was so
great that it appeared unprofitable to work out the averages and standard deviations for
each group. Consequently the results are recorded in full. In spite of the considerable
variation, it will be noted that the lowest number of mitoses present in the ovaries of the
injected animals was considerably higher than the highest in the control ovaries, and it is
clear that, in all cases, some stimulation had occurred due to the presence of oestrone.
Further, the highest count of all, 1818 mitoses noted after five injections, was considerably
higher than the highest count obtained in any normal animal even in the post-ovulation
oestrous period. It will also be noticed that the mitoses induced artificially bore little or
no relation to the large ovarian follicles as they did in the normal animal in oestrus. The
greatest numbers of the induced cell divisions were found, in fact, to be unrelated to any
prominent ovarian structure. It seems probable that the great variation in the results
obtained was due to the fact that, in those animals which gave relatively low mitosis counts,
the connective tissue capsule surrounding the ovary had prevented the oily solution of
oestrone from reaching that organ, whereas in the others which were highly stimulated the
solution had actually penetrated into the capsule.

(ii) Ovarian follicle

Normal adult. The interior of the ovary is filled with masses of connective tissue, or
stroma, in which are embedded the ovarian follicles and corpora lutea. The follicles,
containing oogonia or primary oocytes, are found in all stages of development from a tiny
newly formed group of cells, situated just beneath the germinal epithelium from which