nucleus of Balbiani has spread right to the periphery, and this theory may be correct. The
nucleus of the primary oocyte becomes very simple in structure, and is made up of densely
packed but lightly staining material containing two or three very black chromatin globules.
In a primary oocyte with a diameter of between 135 and 150,, a clearing of the cytoplasm
appears either centrally or towards one side (figure 38). A single clearing may appear in
this way, or several small ones may be found at various places in the dense nucleus of
Balbiani. In either case they expand until the dark staining inclusions have entirely
disappeared.

Primary oocyte of the secondary growth phase. The primary oocyte then has a diameter of
about 185,, and the nucleus a diameter of about 654. The nucleus remains very simple in
structure with dense masses of pale material containing two or three very dark spheres of
chromatin. The wall of the nucleus usually appears to be double due to the fact that it is
surrounded by a narrow but well-defined loose and very pale zone. The cytoplasm has a
narrow outer zone which, under high magnifications, appears to be less coarse in structure
than the larger central region. None of the dark cell inclusions which mark the primary
growth phase remain. The primary oocyte grows and still retains the clear cytoplasm of the
central zone with the denser peripheral zone. No change takes place in the appearance of
the nucleus which, while becoming larger and larger, remains clear. When a cell diameter
of about 4754 is reached, small vacuoles appear along the outer edge of the ceniral zone
(figure 39), and it seems probable that these contained some lipoid material which dissolved
out during fixation and subsequent treatment. As the primary oocyte increases in size,
the vacuoles spread inwards, and finally they extend throughout the whole central zone.

