later work (1887), Sach’s view implied, to some extent at least, that the construction of the
leafy shoot was based on some ideal plan. As Bower (1947) has pointed out, no separate
category was established to include the sporangia, since these were held to be metamor-
phosed vegetative parts, a conception which is traceable back to Goethe.

Current views relating to the leafy shoot are broadly speaking of two kinds, phytonic and
axial (or strobilar) (Bower 1923, 1935; Wetmore 1943). In the former the existence of the
shoot or axis as an independent member is more or less explicitly denied, the plant being
envisaged as a construction of phytons or segments of which the leaf bases or extensions
thereof are the fundamental units (Gaudichaud 1841; Chauveaud 1921). Although such
theories—which usually, but not invariably, e.g. Campbell (1921), have only a subjective
significance—may appear to have a limited application, or may actually possess value for
descriptive purposes, they are artificial and unrelated to the facts of physiology and em-
bryology. The telome theory of Zimmermann (1930), as it seems to the present writer, is
open to similar criticisms.

Supporters of axial theories regard the shoot ‘as a phyletically pre-existing axis or stem
from which the leaves may have arisen by enation’ (Lang 1915). A view similar to that of
Sachs, i.e. that the leafy shoot is the real unit, has been adopted by Bower (1935) where he
observes that ‘axis and leaves act together as a physiological whole and are so initiated in
the embryology: also, in evolutionary history, as based on comparison of early fossils, such
as the Psilophytales. The shoot unit of Sachs is the natural, that is the developmental and
evolutionary unit.’ Earlier, Bower (1922) had pointed out that the young vascular plant
consists essentially of a simple spindle or axis, with a distinction of apex and base. Given
such a unit, he has elaborated the view that plant bodies progressively more elaborate in