It was shown in the previous Part that measurements of the acuity of the human eye by
lights of different colour disclose almost equally good results whatever the colour of the
light may be. This can be accounted for in a satisfactory manner by the cluster hypothesis
(see § 118). Another visual phenomenon which can be adequately explained on the cluster
hypothesis is the retinal direction effect of Stiles & Crawford. This will be dealt with in
§ 123. It is also proposed to describe other phenomena which appear to substantiate this
view. Before doing so, however, it will be necessary to consider in greater detail than has
been done so far, the arrangement of the elements in a cluster, and the disposition of the
clusters in relation to one another. It should also be pointed out that the cluster hypothesis
in no way provides an explanation of colour vision. Thus it does not attempt to stand as a
rival to such well-known theories as the trichromatic theory of Thomas Young. What it
does attempt, is to supplement those theories by adding an essential detail which enables
them to account for certain facts of vision which alone they would be unable to do. There
might be, for example, a trichromatic-cluster hypothesis, or a polychromatic-cluster
hypothesis; the latter being obtained by combining the experimental results of Granit with
the view that the sensory elements discovered by him in the mammalian retina are collected
together into clusters.

-(118) Examples of cluster formation

The hypothesis that the formation of clusters is due to chance, and that the Lumiére
screen is a typical example of such cluster formation, clearly requires further examination
before it can be accepted, and conclusions from it applied to the retina. Such an examina-
tion might be done practically, or mathematically, or both. Some practical tests were
carried out as follows: about 1 oz. of the fine granular cereal ‘semolina’, was divided