metameric segmentation. This view appears to have little tocommend it. In the Arthropoda
parts of somites may become specialized and separate, but this is not to be confused with
the appearance of a segmental series of true somites (see above, p. 556). If this view is
applied to the Onychophora it raises profound difficulties. If the antennal segment is no
segment but only part of an unsegmented acron, how are the striking similarities (shown
above) between the antennal somites and those behind it to be explained? If the charac-
teristics of the antennal segment are not indicative of its true segmental nature, there is little
justification for applying that term to any other segment of the body. When this theory is
applied to other Arthropoda it again raises difficulties. It does not explain the amazing
uniformity of the plan of mesodermal segmentation found in the heads of the mandibulate
groups in spite of the difference in the numbers of adult head appendages. Snodgrass’s
statement that coelomic sacs in his extended ‘acron’ are best developed in the higher
arthropods is not borne out by the facts, unless he means that two somites occur in his
“unsegmented acron’ in the mandibulate arthropods while only one occurs in Peripatus.
In the Crustacea, for example, a hollow antennulary somite has not yet been seen, and the
antennal somite is solid except for the cavity of the antennal gland. The cavity of the
antennal somite in Peripatus is relatively much larger than any in the Crustacea. Tiegs
(1940) correctly remarks concerning the Symphyla and Insecta that ‘in all head segments
there is a tendency for coelomic sacs to disappear’.

Snodgrass submits a summary of the evidence for his views under eight headings (1938,
p- 94); the more important of these will shortly be considered.

(1) Snodgrass states that ‘there is never any external division of the acronal region (his
extended acron) into segmental areas’, and he refers to the work of Sollaud (1923) showing