Phyllotaxis index and plastochrone ratio therefore are concepts related equally to the
morphology of the shoot apex and to certain rates of growth and differentiation within it.

By a slight extension of the morphological analysis the height of phyllotaxis on the apical
surface itself may be shown to be completely defined by the ratio of apical cross-sectional
area to the amount of apical surface associated with a single primordium, in just the same
way as the phyllotaxis in the transverse component is defined by the area ratio (p. 557).

The questions discussed in the foregoing pages, and the validity of the analytical methods
developed, are not directly concerned with those aspects of phyllotaxis theory that relate
to the immediate physiological causes underlying the emergence of a primordium at a
particular place on the apical dome. Only the well-known regularities in both tangential
and radial spacing due to these causes have been accepted as facts of observation, and
certain relationships which must necessarily follow have been investigated. Theories of the
underlying causes of phyllotaxis, if they are to account for all the factors recognized here as
contributing to the geometrical pattern produced, must explain (1) the absolute distancing
of the primordial centres from one another, usually regarded as a consequence of the in-
fluence of existing primordia in determining the position of the next one to appear, and (2)
the absence of primordia from the central apical dome and the factors determining its
transverse size in the region of initiation. Since the phenomena of phyllotaxis may be
discussed also in terms of growth rates within the apex, an ideal theory would be capable,
under clause (2), of accounting for the plastochrone in relation to these rates. The reasons
for the appearance of the various ‘ideal angles’ in apices will be answered implicitly under
clause (1) above, but a full understanding of radial spacing and phyllotaxis index requires
the explanation of both groups of phenomena. A few aspects of phyllotaxis may fall under