situation was exactly the same a century ago and dated back to the times when the
Tidorese hongi-fleets began to plunder the coasts of New Guinea. From Schouten’s
journal we know that in 1616 on the east coast of Halmahera the sailors bartered
tobacco which evidently grew there, and four days later gave rise to tumult and
wantonness between them. Van Nouhuys considers it impossible that tobacco could
have been so popularized before the end of the sixteenth century if it had been brought
there only a short time ago by the Portuguese. Tobacco had not then the slightest
significance as an article of trade by the Portuguese in the sixteenth century, nor was
there any reason for them to spread the tobacco plant. But, he points out (p. 76),
there are several sources, some of which are native, that show absolutely conclusively
that until the end of the sixteenth century the smoking of tobacco and tobacco itself
were completely unknown along the entire eastern border of Asia, Japan and Java
included, notwithstanding the fact that the Portuguese were in Goa in 1498 and that
they or the Spaniards had definite settlements since 1511 on the coast of Malabar, at
Malacca, and on the Philippines, omitting the temporary settlements of the Portuguese
during the sixteenth century on Java. There is not the slightest reason to believe that
the Portuguese of that period would have taken more trouble to plant tobacco else-
where. In a letter to me Nouhuys says: ‘it is curious that Linschoten in his famous
Itinerario [1596] does not mention tobacco from the western part of the Malay archi-
pelago, though he discourses on the use of betel and opium and refers to all kinds of
drugs and herbs. Pigafetta, I think, also never mentions tobacco in the Philippines,
and in 1521 it is reported that in any case there were islands of this group where the
smoking by Europeans caused the greatest astonishment.’

Merrill (1930, p. 103) says: ‘Rumphius clearly describes the American Nicotiana