of contraction of a diseased, weakened, or fatigued ventricle to the same extent as
that of a healthy one.

It is easy to understand then, why a diseased heart gives way first during moments
of exertion, in spite of the action of the augmentors. It must be assumed, also, that
prolonged or extreme augmentor action causes, as in the case of maximal contraction
of other muscles of the body, fatigue which will not only lessen the force of these
maximal contractions, but will in the case of the heart, for a time varying with the
nutrition of the individual, diminish the force of the ventricular contractions which
are carried on after the augmentors have ceased to be excited. We would expect,
therefore, that a heart whose powers had been oversirained, would remain dilated for
a varying time after the work thrown upon it had ceased to be increased. There is
nothing in this contradictory to the fact that, with repeated great augmentor action,
under favourable conditions, the heart becomes hypertrophied. This is only what
takes place in the case of all muscles of the body. In a healthy heart, whether there
be augmentor action or no, dilation and fatigue are synonymous terms. in a diseased
heart the degree of dilation of its cavities is in inverse ratio to its power of doing its
work ; in both cases the dilation per se places the heart in an unfavourable position
for meeting physiological increase in the work thrown upon it.

We have said nothing, so far, about the part played by the vagus in protecting the
heart against overstrain or fatigue. Even in the greatly weakened heart of, let us
say, chlorosis, active exertion is accompanied by augmentor action; the vagus does
not therefore completely prevent the heart responding to demands on the part of the
system for more blood, and does not therefore prevent the heart being thereby