is something to strive for, has preoccupied thinkers
since Socrates. But, as the quotation from Plato illus-
trates, self-knowledge is not always (or even often)
evident, and at best tends to be a noisy and inaccurate
impression of one’s mental milieu [1]. Empirical work
in the psychological sciences has thrown up counterin-
tuitive examples of self-knowledge being confabulated,
dissociated from reality or otherwise inaccurate [2,3].
To take one striking case, when decisions about facial
attractiveness or supermarket goods are surreptitiously
reversed, subjects are often unaware of these reversals,
and go on to confabulate explanations of why they
chose options they had in fact rejected [4,5]. Further-
more, self-assessments of personality and cognitive
biases tend to be poorer than similar assessments applied
to others, leading to an ‘introspection illusion’ [6]. Such
subjective inaccuracy perhaps accounts for the demise of
an introspectionist method in the late nineteenth cen-
tury: if verbal reports vary from setting to setting, and
can be contradicted from trial to trial, then what hope
is there for an objective science of the subjective? [7].

1338 This journal is © 2012 The Royal Society

