
With this Theme Issue, we contribute to the conceptual
integration required for a deeper understanding of the pro-
cesses that enable and constrain behavioural flexibility in a
social context. Such an endeavour is best served by an inte-
grative approach that draws on Tinbergen’s [12] seminal
insights that the evolution of a behaviour pattern cannot be
seen in isolation from the underlying neuronal and hormonal
mechanisms that give rise to it, as well as the genetic and
environmental factors directing relevant developmental pro-
cesses and the adaptations of ancestral species that underlie
current adaptations. While Tinbergen was well aware of the
fact that certain constraints can ‘stabilize’ the behaviour of a
species, in his 1963 paper he discussed the fact that causal
and motivational mechanisms constrain the path of evolution
only in passing. Given the practical constraints related to the
increasing specialization of students of animal behaviour
today, the four approaches outlined by Tinbergen have
rarely been applied to a particular problem in the same
species. By emphasizing the value and necessity of applying
such an integrative approach to the study of flexibility in
social behaviour, we hope to inspire behavioural and
evolutionary biologists to adopt this more integrative per-
spective themselves [13] and also encourage more dialogue
between field and laboratory scientists. The 50th anniversary