alent variation in social complexity, behavioural flexibility,
brain size and cognitive abilities [16-19]. Compared with
other taxa whose social behaviour has been well studied,
notably birds and social insects, mammals exhibit more inter-
specific variation in the pace of development (which affects
time available for learning), length of the lifespan (which influ-
ences options to establish and manage multiple, long-term
individualized social relationships in complex networks) and
finally, brain size (which modulates behavioural decisions
through variable cognitive abilities).

Social behaviour of other taxa is, of course, also character-
ized by complexity and sophistication; in fact, there is
substantial evidence to suggest that the same principles dis-
cussed in this Theme Issue are also important determinants
of the social behaviour of non-mammalian taxa. To cite just
a few examples, some bird species can live or be kept in
either pairs or flocks [20], whereas others are strictly pair-
living and intolerant of intruders [21], indicating convergent
patterns across birds and mammals (see below). Similarly,
monogamous mating has been identified as a phylogenetically
robust condition for the evolution of cooperative breeding in
social insects [22], birds [23] and mammals alike [24]. As in
mammals, aspects of the social system of other taxa also exhi-
bit distinct patterns of variation above the species level, such as