over a period of 100 years. External perturbations were switched
off during this process, because the aim is to determine which
attractor is operating or whether the reef is at equilibrium. Pos-
itions on the phase portrait that clearly fall below the unstable

equilibrium (i.e. within the algal-dominated basin) would
never experience an increase in coral cover. By contrast, simu-
lations from positions that lie above the unstable equilibrium
(i.e. within the coral-dominated basin) would always exhibit an
increase in coral cover. Theoretically, the state of a reef would
remain unchanged for all 100 years if it lays precisely at the
unstable equilibrium. However, the existence of stochastic eco-
logical processes means that the unstable equilibrium is in fact
probabilistic. We captured this variability in our calculation of
the phase portrait by determining the percentage of 100 simu-
lations that exhibited coral recovery for each initial starting
position. A reef near the unstable equilibrium will follow the
coral attractor 50% of the time and the algal attractor 50% of
the time.

For each simulation of the four treatments, we extracted the
probability of recovery from the relevant phase portrait, based on
coral species composition and decade. At every time step, ecologi-
cal resilience was calculated as the mean recovery probability over
the 100 simulations. Note that these simulations differ to those used