marine regime shifts [56] and a quasi-synchronous period of
regime shifts in the late 1980s in the Northern Hemisphere
related to temperature and the Arctic circulation [57].

(b) Overcoming the top-down versus bottom-up
debate: the importance of ecosystem type

A major debate in ecological research is whether marine
regime shifts are due to top-down (predator) or bottom-up
(prey and environment) control [29]. We consider that this
bottom-up/top-down distinction, although widely used,
may not be entirely correct for the marine environment. In
fact, bottom-up processes impacting primary production
typically include climate-related variables, such as tempera-
ture and other physical factors, which, in this environment,
are likely to affect simultaneously several trophic levels in
the food chain [58]. Hence, these drivers are not operating
in a strictly ‘bottom-up’ manner (note that most marine
organisms have at least a planktonic stage, and thus are
equally vulnerable to, for example, temperature or ocean
circulation changes). Hence, a better distinction with regards
to identifying regime shift drivers would be between
“‘trophic/biological’ and ‘physical/environmental’ stressors
or drivers. Physical/environmental stressors include temp-
erature changes (e.g. due to the ongoing global warming),