
parallel, and their dominance is strongly context dependent
[66,74—78]. Furthermore, there may as well be fundamental
differences in the susceptibility of marine ecosystem types to
external drivers, as suggested in the driver versus spatial-con-
straint hypothesis by Pershing et al. [29] in this issue, here
renamed as stressor versus ecosystem-type hypothesis. Spatially
(or mobility) restricted ecosystems (e.g. reefs), as well as
semi-enclosed basins (e.g. the Baltic and Black Seas), are
often more susceptible to top-down trophic cascades, while
open shelf or open ocean ecosystems are more susceptible to
physical drivers, such as temperature. In spatially restricted
(or low mobility) ecosystems, individuals in fact cannot
escape or relocate to neighbouring areas, hence trophic preda-
tor—prey interactions with associated cascading effects can
have a prevailing role [29,38,40,43,79-81]. By contrast, in
more open, pelagic ecosystems, where species can unrestrict-
edly move or can be transported by altered ocean circulation
far from the regular sampling area, predator—prey interactions
are likely to be weaker due to limited predator—prey overlaps,
and physical stressors such as temperature or climate-induced
circulation changes are likely to be the main drivers of
observed ecosystem changes [29,53,57,65,82,83].

(c) Multiple drivers and their interaction