t+ 1 is determined by the impact that all the different types
have on the frequency of Ys, and on the frequency of each of
those different types at t. (In this sense, there is a simple
form of frequency-dependence built into this model.) When
all of these values are known, the relative frequency of Ys at
t+ 1, Fy(t + 1), can be straightforwardly computed:

attractor as any type whose relative frequency tends to :
increase over time. These equations make it clear that: | =
(i) whether or not a given type is an attractor depends on = 3
its relative success at benefitting not only from the impact
and frequency at the previous time step of items of the © 4
same time, but in fact of the impact and frequency at the pre-
vious time step of all the members of the population, © w
whatever their type; and (ii) the frequency of one type =
depends on the impacts of other types on others, and not = S
just of others on the focal type. (These facts will of course © $
lead to further frequency-dependence effects, which we do = ©
not explore here.) Consequently, the same type may be an
attractor within one population, but not in another.

We now provide a number of simple, miscellaneous
illustrative examples of ECMs, and the modelling possibilities
they afford. To the extent that we are only interested in the
evolution of the relative frequency of the types, we could use