vocalizations may relate to different aspects in this spectrum
(and not necessarily be related to only one of them). The level
of analogy may not necessarily be based on formal consider-
ations, but may also depend on corresponding semantics (or
second tier structure), context, function and the underlying
motivation of communication.

We discussed several classes of formal models that lend
themselves to computational implementation and empirical
evaluation. While the (extended) CH provides a useful perspec-
tive for the comparison of different theoretical approaches and
predictions concerning properties of structures, it is important
to bear in mind the limitations we discussed and the fact that
cognitively plausible mechanisms may not be well represented
in terms of the CH. The notion of grammatical gradience and
other factors such as the necessary flexibility of dealing with
noise and uncertainty in ecological structures motivate exten-
sions towards probabilistic models. Finally, we have discussed
recent models that add gradation and continuous-valued

variable spaces. Such models link formal grammar and neural
network approaches and add the power to deal with ecological
structures that are inherently continuous. Finally, they predict
that a single cognitively relevant framework may predict
sequences of different complexity in the CH and therefore