some parts of it), but the cerebellum does not contribute to
it, despite the latter having even more neurons; [103]? Why
does consciousness fade early in sleep, although the brain
remains active? Why is it lost during generalized seizures,
when neural activity is intense and synchronous? Why is
there no direct contribution to consciousness from neural
activity within sensory pathways (the retina) and motor path-
ways (the motoneurons in the spinal cord), or within neural
circuits looping out of the cortex into subcortical structures
and back, despite their manifest ability to influence the
content of experience?

These and other well-known facts find a parsimonious
explanation based on the postulates of IIT. Thus, a prominent
feature of the cerebral cortex, which is responsible for the con-
tent of consciousness, is that it is composed of elements that
are functionally specialized and at the same time can interact
rapidly and effectively. This is the kind of organization that
yields a comparatively high value of ™™. Instead, the cer-
ebellum is composed of small modules that process inputs
and produce outputs largely independent of each other
[104,105]. Simulations also show that input and output path-
ways, while capable of affecting the major complex and being
affected by it, can remain excluded from it, because they are
not part of a local maximum of integrated information. The