and essential E. coli protein, the central subunit of the BAM
complex, BamA, is well positioned in cells to execute these
functions.

To demonstrate that BamA could accelerate folding of
client OMPs, Gessmann et al. [15] conducted folding exper-
iments of client uOMPs either in the absence or in the
presence of pre-folded BamA in vesicles containing PE lipids.
In all cases, pre-folded BamA accelerates the folding of the
client OMP. Although the BamA-enhanced initial rate
increased with increasing substrate concentration (figure 3),
these experiments could not definitively establish that BamA
behaved according to classic enzyme kinetics. In fact, if it
does function like that, the initial rate versus [substrate] plot
did not display the expected shape of a square hyperbola,
which implies that the K,, would be high. Such a finding
seems to indicate that any interactions between BamA and a
client uUOMP are thermodynamically quite weak.

Because uOMP folding is minimally second order, it is also
worth considering how BamA may function to influence the
membrane conformation. A large literature of folding studies
in vitro has demonstrated that forms of the bilayer expected
to have defects accelerate uOMP folding. Under otherwise
identical experimental conditions, unfolded OMPs fold faster