expert evidence can be understood by those who are called
upon to determine a defendant's culpability at trial. One
approach might be to introduce ‘standardized documents’ or
‘primers’ which would have the benefit of facilitating the
presentation of basic science in an accessible format. These
primers, restricted to branches of forensic science for which
there existed a consensus amongst scientists, would in the
opinion of the Lord Chief Justice ‘assist juries in under-
standing the concepts underpinning the issues in their case’
(p. 13). One might extrapolate that the absence of a primer
for a particular discipline might be a stark indicator of the
value of that evidence type for the legal teams and the triers
of fact.

This, however, still exposes the need for forensic science to
be honest with itself and reflect on the fundamental deficiencies
within its ranks. The scientific community needs to address
these to merit judicial confidence or else be brave enough and
have sufficient professional conscience to abandon the evidence
types that do not meet the required judicial reliability before
they are forced to do so in open court. Furthermore, the onus
is on the forensic science and judicial community to work in
tandem to ensure that the introduction of new technologies,
essential to keep pace with the developing world, are managed
in such a way as to ensure judicial confidence from the outset.