Scuustrrr’s theory of the latter naturally suggests that the former is due to the
lunar tidal oscillations of the atmosphere. These oscillations have very little effect
upon the barometer, the ordinary diurnal barometric variation being a thermal and
not a tidal effect; but a lunar barometric tide does exist, and has been evaluated
with a considerable degree of accuracy at some tropical stations (St. Helena,
Singapore, and Batavia).* The explanation gains weight from the fact that at
perigee the lunar magnetic variations are of distinctly greater amplitude than at
apogee,t and there is some evidence that the ratio of the amplitudes at the two
seasons is that which would be predicted by the tidal theory (1°23), though the
observational results do not suffice, as yet, to establish this definitely.

§5. Dr. van BemMeten, at Batavia, has recently collected all the existing
determinations of the lunar magnetic variation for different stations, and has
examined this material, together with newly computed data for other stations, to see
whether the magnetic field which produces these effects has a potential, and whether
the latter has its source above or below the earth’s surface.{ He finds that most of
the field, at any rate, has a potential, and that this arises partly above and partly
below the earth’s surface, but that the internal field is too great to be merely a
secondary induction effect. This result should be accepted with some reserve, at,
present, not only on account of the imperfections of the data, but also because the
seasonal change of the variations was disregarded; in certain elements at some
stations the summer and winter variations are of opposite sign, and this renders it
unsafe to take the mean variation for the whole year.