This gale was felt between
the 48th and goth degrees of latitude, and, no doubt, ex-
tended its effects very far to the south and west ; but what
the state of the winds had been in those quarters, previous to
the 27th of January, we are ignorant. The winds in the Bri-
tish Channel had been easterly, for three days preceding the
gale: the fourth day, preceding, there had been strong gales
at SW ; and the five days preceding that, there had been
chiefly light winds at west. According to this state of facts,
we can only suppose that the current originated from a vast
body of water, pent up in the Bay of Biscay, by violent gales
of wind ; first from the southward, eleven hours; then from
a point or two to the south of west ; and lastly, at south-west.

* Cape Clear is reckoned to be in long. 99 25' from London.


that often prevails to the Westward of Scilly. 195

We are not to consider the water of this current, as having
made the circuit of the Bay of Biscay ; but as the collective
body of pent up waters, in the Bay, running off along the SW
coast of Britanny, and thence to the north-westward ; pre-
serving nearly the direction it had acquired, by running along
that coast. And it may be conceived, that the frequent recur-
rence of westerly winds, keeps up a constant current in the
Bay, and to some distance beyond it ; although during the
longest intermissions of these winds, the current may become
80 8low, as to be scarce perceptible. The second particular which perplexes me, is, that no
northern 5set is indicated by Captain Coorxk's journal : that
is to say, by the mode in which each day's log is wrought ;
and which, in the formation of the chart, as is said before, I
have strictly adhered to.