Had-my object been to give a' correction for difference of
temperature, to be applied generally to the intensities de-
duced from the times of vibration, a closer agreement in the
results would have been desirable ; but although such is not
my object, I wish, from these experiments, to- point out the
necessity of such- correction, when we- would deduce the
magnetic intensity from the times of vibration-of a needle in
different parts of the earth, where the temperatures during
the observations are necessarily different. The observations which I have detailed are, I think, quite
conclusive as. establishing the fact, that the rays of the sun
had a tendency to check the vibrations of the needle, parti-
cularly those-in the last table; since here, on the needle
being exposed to the sun, the terminal arc was reduced from
nearly 14* to 82?, and again on excluding its rays that arc
was increased to nearly 18*: the only question is whether
this would take place under all circumstances ; that is, whe-
ther the influence be exerted in all cases directly on a mag-
netised needle and independently of changes in its tempera-
ture and intensity, or whether it was an effect produced on
the metal of the box by a change in its temperature. That
the'effect is independent of changes in the temperature and
intensity of the needle will appear from comparing the first
observation in the sun with the first of the second set in the
shade; the temperatures and times of vibration are very


226 Mr. .Cur1sTIE on magnetic

nearly the same in the. two cases, and yet in the sun the
terminal arc is only 8*, whereas it is 12* go' in the shade.