The mean temperature of ordinary barometrical ob-
ſervations, I apprehend, will generally be found to lie
between 40* and 70% on FAHRENHEIT'S thermometer;
now the mean expanſion in this range, according to your
obſervation, is ,0323 inch on a column'of 30 inches for
Io? of heat; by my table it is only 20304 inch, the dif-
ference ,o019 inch is equal to about 20 inches in the
reſult of the height, when the temperature of the two
barometers differs 10%, and this may reaſonably be ex-
pected only in a height of 3000 or 4000 feet. In an

obſer-


the Meaſurement of Heights with the Barometer, 68 3}
obſervation on Mount Ftna, one of the greateſt acceſſible
heights in Europe, thedifferenceof temperature at the top
and bottom might amount to. 30%, and this would occaſion
a difference of about five feet, which, I apprehend, may
be reckoned inconſiderable in a height of x I,000 feet. In fact, in an obſervation on this mountain by Mr. pxs-
SAUSSURE it amounted to only 34 feet, I may add, that
your 'equation makes the computed hej ght leſs than
mine, |

I proceed to the expanſion of air. Your equation 1s!
various: according to the circumſtances, the difference
therefore of our reſults will, according to the circum-
ſtances, be various. The following table will give the
quantity of this difference, vis. it ſhews how much your
reſult is-+ or — mine upon one thouſand feet, according
to different preſſures of the atmoſphere. and different
temperatures.