JovLEt and myself, and demon-
strated by our experiments# to agree very approximately with their difference of
temperature as indicated by an air-thermometer. Finding this conelusion contra-
dictory to the statements made by experimenters, that the electro-motive force does
not vary with the temperature of the junctions according to the same law in circuits
composed of different metals, I perceived that PeLTIeR's discovery did not afford a
sufficient explanation of the source whence a thermo-electric current derives its
energy, but that electric currents must possess the previously undiscovered property
of producing different thermal effects in passing from cold to hot and from hot to
cold in the same metal, and must possess this property to different amounts in
different metals.

7. Taking this new property of electric currents into account '*along with that
discovered by PELTIER, and introducing an application of Carnor's principle, I arrived
at expressions for the relations between the heat absorbed and evolved in various
parts of a circuit of any different metals, and between the electro-motive force and
the temperatures of the junctions, which appear to be in complete accordance with
the facts. These investigations were communicated in December 1851, to the Royal
Society of Edinburgh.

8. Still simpler theoretical considerations (Sy 10 to 18 below) regarding the source
of energy drawn upon in a thermo-electric current, make it certain that the pheno-
mena of inversion discovered by CumminG could not exist, unless the metals present-
ing them had the property of experiencing, when unequally heated, unequal thermal
effects from electric currents passing through them from hot to cold, and from cold
to hot.