125

influence its position, and taken on an average of a sufficient number of days to
make the figure a fair mean representation. This is the © diurnal variation,” as
shown by observation at different seasons and at different parts of the globe, which
it has been Mr. Farapar's object, in papers recently read before the Society, to ex-
plain physically. But the variation thus observed is in fact constituted by two vari-
ations superimposed upon each other, having different laws, and bearing different
proportions to each other in different parts of the globe. At tropical stations the
influence of what have been hitherto called the © irregular disturbances” is compara-
ratively feeble, and their periodical effects may be therefore less deserving of atten-
tion; but it is otherwise at stations situated as are Toronto and Hobarton, where
their influence is both really and proportionally greater, and already amounts to a
clearly recognizable part of the whole diurnal variation ; and it must be very far
otherwise at stations which still more nearly approach those localities on the globe,
where disturbances of this class become much greater than either at Hobarton or
Toronto. As these localities are approached, the mean diurnal variation must be
expected to partake more and more of the law by which the effects of those disturb-
ances are regulated ; and if that law be different, as it will be shown to be in the
instances adduced in this paper, from another law also shown to exist, and by which
another portion of the diurnal variation is governed, it may become necessary, and
most probably will become necessary, at such stations, to separate, approximately at
least, the effects 80 regulated by different laws in order to study their respective
physical causes.