259

the surfaces made by the knife in dividing the roots into

cuttings; and the buds of these, in many instances, elongated
into runners which gave existence to other tubers, some of
which I had the pleasure to send to you,

I have in a former Paper remarked, that the potatoe consists

of four distinct \substances, the epidermis, the true skin, the
bark, and its internal substance, which from its mode of forma-
tion, and subsequent office, I have supposed to be alburnous :
there is also in the young tubes a transparent line through the
center, which is probably its medulla. The buds and runners
sprang from the substance which I conceive to be the alburnum
of the root, and neither from the central part of it, nor from
the surface in contact with the bark. It must, however, be
admitted, that the internal substance of the potatoe corresponds
more nearly with our ideas of a medullary than of an albur-
nous 8ubstance, and therefore this, with the preceding facts, is

adduced to prove only that the reproduced buds of these

plants are not generated by the cortical substance of the root :

and I shall proceed to relate some experiments on the apple,
and pear, and plumb-tree, which I conceive to prove that the
reproduced buds of those plants do not spring from the
medulla. Having raised from seeds a very considerable number of
plants of each of these species in 1802, I partly disengaged
them from the soil in the autumn, by digging round each
plant, which was then raised about two inches above its former
level. A part of the mould was then removed, and the plants
were cut off about an inch below the points where the seed-
leaves formerly grew ; and a portion of the root, about an inch
long, without any bud-upon-it, remained exposed to the air
Ll1sz


260 Mr. KNnicnrT on the Reproduction of Buds.

and light.