Nature appears to'have denied to annual and 'biennial-plants
(atleast to:those which have been the subjects-of my-experi-
ments) the power whichvit has given to perennial plants to
reproduce their buds; but mevertheless some-biennials possess,
under peculiar circumstances, a-/very- singular; resource, when
all their buds: have: been” destroyed:: A turnip, bred- between
the English and Swedish variety, from which I had cut off the
greater part of its fruit-stalks, and of which all the buds had
been! destroyed, remained s0me- weeks in» an apparently dor-
mant'state ; after which the'first seed in each pod germinated,
and bursting the seed-vessel, seemed to execute the office ofa
bud and leaves to the parent plant, during the short remaining
term''of its existence;, when its- preternatural foliage perished
with it; Whether this-property be'possessed by other biennial
plants'in common with'the'turnip or not, I am not at present
in possession of facts to decide, not having made” precisely the
same experiment on any other plant. Twill take this opportunity” to correct an inference that T
have drawn in a' former Paper;* which the facts (though quite
correctly stated) do not, on 'subsequent repetition of the ex-
periment, appear to justify. I have stated, that when a per-
pendicular shoot of the 'vine' was inverted.