Half of the glaſs veſſel Z was broken
off, and the filings of metal therein were thrown
about the room. From hence it is plain, that the
force of the lightning was collected upon the right
rod CD, which touched the filings of metal in the
glaſs veſſel E,- Upon examining the effects of light-
ning in the Profeflor's chamber, they found the
door-caſe ſplit half-chrough, and the door torn off,
and thrown into the chamber, The lightning there-
fore: ſeems: to have continued its courſe along the
chain, conducted under the ceiling of the room ; but
that it came from the apparatus at the top of the
houſe to the door, and then into the chamber, does
not, as far as can be collected, appear,

If indeed it could be aſcertained, that the light-
ning, which was the death of Profeſſor Richman, was
colle&ted upon the apparatus, for this reaſon, becauſe
theſe bodies, at the inſtant of the lightning, were:
capable of attraCting and retaining the elcdricity, it
would then be in our power ſometimes to divert the
effects of lightning. But of this fact, more time and-
longer experience muſt acquaint us with the truth. From hence Mr. Pinckney may acquaint Dr.