These phenomena have not escaped the vigilance of Dr. BREWSTER. In his paper of 1818, he distinctly notices the fact
of a deviation from Newton's scale, in crystals with two axes,
and promises a more detailed account of it, which however has
not yet appeared. But the object of the present communication
is not thereby anticipated, as in the only passage in that paper


erystallized bodies on homogeneous light. 49

in which he expresses himself otherwise than obscurely on its
cause, he appears to regard the deviated tints as analogous
to those developed along the axis of rock crystal and by cer-
tain liquids; an analogy which, in the present state of our
knowledge on that perplexing subject, it seems not easy to
admit. In a paper too, which has lately appeared, containing
the interesting observations of the same excellent philosopher
on the optical structure of the apophyllite, he remarks the
very striking deviation of the colours of this crystal from
Newron's scale © in the first orders” of its rings; and while
he remarks that such deviations are common enough, and
indeed universal in crystals © in which the rings are formed
by the joint action of two axes,” seems to think this analogy
close enough to authorize the substitution of two rectangular
axes of a negative character for the single positive axis
actually observed, according to his own peculiar and ingeni-
ous views on this subject.