the vault, in a lengthened strip of territory lying parallel with the great longitudinal
fissure, and represented by the shaded area in the diagram.* It extends forwards
well into the frontal extremity, covers the whole outer aspect of the hemisphere here,
and becoming much poorer in cells, spreads along the lower confines of the extra-limbic
mass, skirting the limbic fissure as far as, and even behind, the slight depression which
in this animal represents the Sylvian fissure. Between these two tracts the encloged
area is spanned by a five-laminated cortex whose ganglionic series is poor, and
distributed in the linear or slitary arrangement. The region which may therefore be
considered, par excellence, as that of a rich ganglionic formation, is the narrow strip
of cortex along the sagittal margin of the hemisphere from A to D (Plate 49, fig. 3),
extending over the outer aspect of the hemisphere betwixt A and B as far down as the
limbic fissure, and next to this the upper limbic arc. The far less characteristic
formation adjacent to the limbic fissure, however, is interesting chiefly from the fact
that it foreshadows a richer structure, which appears along this course in higher
animals. It will be convenient to name these formations the sagittal and Sylvian
formations of large ganglionic cells. Thus it was shown that the five-laminated cortex,
with its clustered cells, in the Pig not only extends over the anterior limbic arc and
frontal lobe, but bends back over the first and second parietal gyri © from their union
with the ascending parietal (post-Rolandique, Broca) towards and around the Sylvian
fissure.”} In the Pig, therefore, as also in the Sheep, we have demonstrated the
distribution of the rich ganglionic layer over the regions bordering upon the limbic
fissure. Just as in these and other allied animals we have betwixt, the two regions of
the clustered ganglionic cells an intermediate district Fro by a laminar
arrangement of this series and an intercalated series of angular elements, 80 in the
Rabbit a similar cortex intervenes betwixt the inner and outer series of rich ganglionic