the temperature of red-hot iron; and. this heat it must cer-
tainly acquire in the explosion of gunpowder. But if the force
of fired gunpowder arises principally from the elastic force of
heated aqueous vapour, a cannon is nothing more than a steam=
engine upon a peculiar construction ; and upon determining
the ratio of the elasticity of this vapour to its density, and to
its temperature, a law will be found to obtain, very different
from that assumed by Mr. Rosivs, in his Treatise on Gunnery.
What this law really is, I do not pretend to have determined
with that degree of precision which I wished ; but the experi-
ments of which I am about to give an account will, I think,
demonstrate in the most satisfactory manner, not only that the
force of fired gunpowder is in fact much greater than has been
imagined, but also that its. force consists principally in the
temporary action of a fluid not permanently elastic, and con-
sequently that all the theories hitherto proposed for the eluci-
dation of this subject, must be essentially erroneous.

The first step towards acquiring knowledge is undoubtedly
that which leads us to a discovery of the falsehood of received
opinions. To a diligent inquirer every common operation,
performed in the usual course of practice, is an experiment,
from which he endeavours to discover some new fact, or to
confirm the result of former inquiries.
