844 MR. W. GARDINER ON THE CONTINUITY OF THE

question the cells appeared to be quite dead, and as such they are gimply preyed upon
by the growing embryo. Thus, all the changes which rezult in their 8ubsequent,
breaking down proceed from the embryo itself.

Special experiments were made with sulphuric acid, in order to observe its action in
cages where a continuity was known to exist. In fresh living cells treatment with
sulphuric acid, and staining with methyl violeb and glycerine or HorManx's blue,
showed that, although the protoplasxm had contracted, those portions projecting into
the pits 8till adhered to the pit membrane, and that the threads of protoplasm running
through the pit membrane were continuous on either side with the above-mentioned
symmetrically opposite processes (figs. 14 and 15). The processes, in fact, appear to
be held to the pit membrane by the threads in question in all cages where the con-
tinuity is pronounced. Under a low power the individual threads could not be
distinguished, and the appearance then presented was that of two darkly-stained
threads united by a lighter-stained area running between themâ€”in fact, the very
appearance presented by Mimosa and Robina* (0. figs. 5, 7, 14, and 15). In the
cage of ripening s8eeds, the protoplasm may be made to contract slightly from the
membrane, and then a similar phenomenon is induced to that which occurs in Amicia
and the bast cells of Mimosa (cf. figs. 11 and 13), although in them it is not occa-
sioned by loss of vitality, bub rather from the fact that the threads are probably
extremely fine and the continuity not 80 pronounced as it is in the case. of the
parenchyma cells. In fully-ripe seeds where the cells are dead, the protoplagm always
contracts away from the cell-wall, and a similar state of things usually occurs when