existed, such as PRINGSHEIM observed in Spirogyrd.t

The point of special interest to me was to ascertain whether these threads bore any
relation to the pits. As I stated in my paper before the Royal Society, I have
observed several well defined instances in which threads do go to pits, and in Plate 70,
fig. 34, which is a made-up figure embodying in one representation the results of
numerous individual cases, I have attempted to illustrate 8uch appearances. In one
instance, where plasmolysis had been quickly induced by means of a strong alt
solution, two spheres of protoplasm occupied the two opposite pit depressions, from
each of which a thread ran to the main protoplasmic mass. However, numerous
experiments have convinced me that no reliance can be placed upon the results
obtained by plasmolysis, as giving any certain clue to the existence of protoplasmic
continuity. With this opinion Bower also agrees, F In fact, the greater proportion
of threads bear no relation to pits, and in 8uch an experiment as plasmolysing a hair
of Primula 8inensis, ib is 8een that as many threads go to the longitudinal as to the
transverse walls, and are thus present on the free walls, as well as those separating
contiguous cells (se also Plate 70, fig. 39).

As I mentioned in the earlier part of my paper, my efforts to fix and stain these
plasmolytic figures did not meet with perfect succees, although picric acid gave very
gatisfactory results. I am, however, inclined to think that additional shrinking was
produced by the use of glycerine, and the method deserves another trial, As a result
of the taining, both the threads and the protoplasm were well brought into view, but
a very great proportion of the threads were ruptured, and appeared as little spheres
attached to the cell-wall. I was unable to trace the protoplasm into the cell-wall, but