possIible, however, that monactinellid sponges may have been also numerous in these
sponge-beds, though we have but few spicules which can be definitely recognised as
belonging to this order, for the spicules of most of the recent monactinellids are 80
minute and delicate that they would most likely be destroyed in fossilisation.
Tetractinellid sponges are strongly represented, and the majority of the spicules in the
sponge-beds are included in this order. There is a very great variety of the © zone ”
spicules of these sponges, each of which probably indicates a distinet species. The
80-called © anchor” 8picules, the globates and stello-globates, which form a dermal
layer in some of these sponges, are also present. The lithistid sponges are princi-
pally represented by spicules belonging to the megamorina family. These are very
numerous and very generally distributed. The skeletal spicules of the other families
of lithistids are less common, and their generally minute dimensions may partly
account for this fact. There is, however, a great number of the dermal spicules of
lithistid sponges, which most probably belong to the tetracladina family. These
dermal spicules are but seldom preserved on the surface of the entire lithistid
sponges which have been discovered in the greensand, but they are present, quite
detached from each other, in the sponge-beds, in a great variety of forms. The
remains of hexactinellid sponges are comparatively rare, and they are limited to
mall fragments of the mesh and a few detached spicules probably belonging to the
surface layer of the sponge.

* © Transactions of the Devonshire Azsociation for the Adyancement of Science,” 1870.
f Ann, Mag, Nat. Hist., 1871, ser. 4, vol. vii., p. 113, pl. 7-10.

