Throughout the chert, sponge-spicules are present, but owing to the fact that, the
spicules are usually of chalcedony, like the ground-mass of the chert in which they
are enclosed, their outlines are very indistinct. But even when the spicules them-
selves cannot for this reason be recognised, their former presence 1s indicated by the
s0lidified canals, which being of glauconite, or of silica of a different tint to that of
the matrix, are distinctly shown (Plate 40, fig. 3.). In some cases the spicules have
been dissolved after the chert has formed round them, leaving empty moulds.

Intimately allied to the chert is the yellowish-gray porous rock which frequently
forms an exterior crusb to the chert, but sometimes also forms independent beds.
The rock is principally of chalcedonic silica, with which very frequently calcite is
intermingled. The main difference between this rock and chert consists in its porous
nature, arising from the fact that the spicules in it are but as empty casts, and the
silica of these spicules has probably been deposited in the adjoining bands of chert.

There can scarcely be room for doubting that the beds and irregular masses of chert,
which are found nearly everywhere in the strata of the lower and upper greensand in
connexion with the detached spicules of sponges, have been derived from the silica of
these sponge-remains; and from the same source has also originated the silica which,
in many of the deposits, more particularly in the Blackdown Hills, has replaced the
shells and tests of the mollusca and other calcareous organisms. The theory has,
however, been advocated that the silica of chert has been derived rather as a direct
deposit of this mineral from 8olution in sea-water, than as the product of the decom-
position of the siliceous structure of sponges. Thus Dr. BowgRBAXE * held that the
8ponges imbedded in the chert of the greensand possessed horny and not siliceous