lines takes place as in the case of copper and graphite. The lines of iridium yielded
by dry electrodes extend no more than one-fourth the distance towards the opposite
pole. When one pole is a point of iridium and the other of copper, the two series of
short lines are seen, but those of iridium only are visible when that metal con-
stitutes the negative pole, though the copper lines are weak, but still visible, at the
positive pole.

When an iridium point, as the negative electrode, is partially immersed in water
all the short lines are increased in length, 80 thab they stretch four-fifths of the
distance towards the copper ; if the copper be negative and immersed in water the
copper lines are lengthened, and but few of those belonging to iridium are discernible.
The same lengthening of short lines takes place when gold electrodes are moistened.
We have but few facts which serve to indicate the constitution of the electric spark
and the cireumstances under which it is altered in character. It may, however, be
affirmed, with some degree of truth, that an increased intensity of the spark, such as
is gained by placing a jar in circuit, which is usually considered to correspond to an
increase of temperature, causes an increased length in the short lines, and also that
the more volatile the metal the longer the lines. It was considered necessary to
ascertain the effect of heating the electrodes, and accordingly two points of iridium wire
were taken as suitable, When the spark passed ab the ordinary temperature, a photo-
graph which received five minutes' exposure showed, beside the large number of short
lines, a continuous band of rays extending through the whole spectrum. On the same
plate, and immediately beneath this, another photograph was taken while the negative
electrode was heated to the most brilliant incandescence by the oxy-hydrogen blow-
pipe. The spark continued to pass during the whole period of five minutes, as was