length many hours, or even days, elapse before the liquid be-
comes quite clear. Meanwhile it deepens in colour till (un-
less much diluted) it becomes dark brown or red. If the
addition of the carbonate be carried as far as possible without
producing a permanent precipitate, the solution is perfectly
neutral, and continues clear at a low temperature for any |,
length of time. In this state it may be evaporated to dry-
ness in vacuo, and the residue (which does not effervesce with
acids) is till soluble in water without letting any iron fall,
and 80 9n as often as we please.

The compound thus formed is however far from perma-
nent. It is in fact in a $tate of tottering equilibrium, which a
very slight cause is sufficient to overset. Supposing the point
of saturation to have been exactly attained, the addition of an
extremely small quantity more of the alkaline solution is
sufficient to determine the separation of the whole, or nearly
the whole, metallic contents; and if the solution operated on
be pretty concentrated, it fixes after a longer or shorter time
into a stiff and almost solid coagulum. Again, if to the co-
agulum 80 formed, a quantity equally inappreciable of the
original ferruginous solution be added, it gradually liquefies,
and after some time is completely re-dissolved (forming no
inapt representation of the celebrated imposture of St. Janua-
rius's blood )*