of separate rays thrown into one place will not increase their i
intensity sensibly. The other objection is, that passage in
Nzewron, where he says © that the orange and yellow are the
« most luminous of all the colours, affecting the senses most
« strongly.”* Now, besides that this is an assertion opposed
by the positive experiment just now quoted, I think an answer
may be thus made to it ; the whole light, from which the
spectrum is never free, which inclines to yellow, and which is
composed also of red, abounds in the yellow and orange of the
spectrum ; 50 that both of these colours derive their superior
lustre rather than intensity from this circumstance ; or if
they have any degree of the latter more than the red, it is in
fact owing to their mixture with the red and the other rays,
which are all in the white. 4

Having endeavoured to unfold the property of flexibility, as
varied in inflection, deflection, and reflection; and also the
physical cause of this property; and having indulged in a
speculation depending on this cause, T flatter myself neither
altogether useless nor unimportant, F hasten now to the na-
tural phznomena, the explanation of which depends on the
property, whose existence and nature we have just now been
investigating ; and that we may treat this part of the subject
with conciseness and order, we shall rank the phaznomena un-
der a division similar to that under which we laid down the