the annexed tables, it will be observed, that, in a variety of
instances, the water at the surface was much lighter than
when procured from some depth ; but then it would appear
that whenever such a result was obtained, it was owing to the
water at the surface being diluted by the melting of large
masses of ice ; for under ordinary circumstances (as in the
case marked No.5, Table I.), no such difference was obtained
between waters taken at the surface, or brought up from a
considerable depth; and in no instance did the density of the
water of the Atlantic, from whatever depth it was obtained,
appear to exceed the mean density of the waters of the ocean.

The fact however may be, - and actually appears to be
different in the case of particular seas or arms of the ocean,
in which the influence of currents and other local circum-
stances is more sensibly felt, and the waters of which do not,
for obvious reasons, necessarily partake of the uniform salt=
ness of the ocean. The experiment, as was before observed,
does not appear'to have yet been fairly tried in the Mediter-
ranean, and indeed from the great depth of that sea, it must
be extremely difficult, if not impracticable, to raise water from
the bottom, at least at any considerable distance from the coast.

In the instance of the sea of Marmora, in which water was
obtained with certainty from the bottom, by means - of my