cave\may! give-opportunity' for «more! accuraterinvestigation.
This uncertainty, however” applies :not tocany of the:extinet
species, 'or-to:the/larger animals; whose habit/it-is not-to-bur«
row-in/the ground; norevenito/thoseiof) the: smalleriones;#. 'g.:
the water ratz'fragments)of'whose-bones and:teeth'are found
imbedded: in/the--antediluyian-stalagmite;-and-cemented by!it
both'to: thetexterior:and internahicavities of: bones. belonging
to" the hyaenas: and-other: extinet>species; which beyond all
doubt, were lodged-inithe-dencbefore\the-period:of the intro-
duction of the mud. Should: it turn:out-that»since;this period
the cave has/been'/accessible;tofoxes:and weasels, it:is pos-
sible that some of the'birds also:maychavebeeniintroduced by
them: The evidence» of: this;;however, rests on! a fact:not yet
carefully! ascertained, viz;)whether the-bones-in question, were
buried, like those of +the'rextinet 1animals; beneath} the-mad,
or lay-oly/ its: surface ; «the-state-of/one of the ravyens*'bones,
containing stalagmite- in its''central'cavity(scePlate XXV.
fig. 22, 2g), seems to/indicate/high antiquity ;(andthe/quarry-
man, who'was the first 'to' enter 'the!1cave; assured me, that
he' has never seen a'single bone'of | any kind-on» the:surface,
nor: without digging into:the/substance: of the mud.

As ruminating animals form the ordinary-food-of beastsof
prey, it is not $urprising that their remains should occur in
such abundance in the” cave (ee Plate' XXIL. fig. 1'to 14);