the same part, and both have two antlers, that rise very near
the base. In a smaller species the lowest antler is g+ inches
above the base, the circumference of which is 8 inches, (see
fig. 5.) No horns are found entire, but fragments only, and
these apparently gnawed to pieces like the bones : their lower
extremity nearest the head js that which has generally es-
caped destruction : and it is a curious fact, that this portion of
all the horns I have seen from the cave, shows, by the rounded
state of the base, that they had fallen off by absorption or
necrosis, and been shed from the head on which they grew,
and not broken off by, violence.

It must already appear probable, from the facts above de-
scribed, particularly from the comminuted state and appa-
rently gnawed condition of the bones, that the cave at Kirk-
dale was, during a long succession of years, inhabited as a
den by hyznas, and that they dragged into its recesses the
other animal bodies whose remains are found mixed indis-
criminately with their own ; and this conjecture is rendered
almost certain by the discovery I made, of many small balls
of the solid calcareous excrement of an animal that had fed on
bones, resembling the substance known in the old Materia Me-
dica by the name of album grecum (ee Plate XXIV. fig. 6.) :
its external form is that of a sphere, irregularly compressed,
as in the feces of sheep, and varying from half an inch to an