authorised to conclude, and observation abundantly confirms it,
that stars cannot be seen by the naked eye, when they are more
than seven or eight times farther from us than Sirius; and that
they become, comparatively speaking, very s0on invisible with
our best instruments. It will be shewn hereafter, that the visi-
bility of stars depends on the penetrating power of telescopes,
which, I must repeat, falls indeed very short of shewing stars
that are many thousands of times farther from us than Sirius ;
much less can we ever hope to see stars that are all but infi-
nitely distant.

If now it be admitted that the expressions we have laid down
are such as agree with well known facts, we may proceed to
vision at a distance ; and first with respect to the naked eye.

Here the power of penetrating into space, is not only con-
fined by nature, but is moreover occasionally limited by the
failure in brightness of luminous objects. Let us see whether
astronomical observations, assisted by mathematical reasoning,
can give us some idea of the general extent of natural vision.
Among the reflecting luminous objects, our penetrating powers
are sufficiently ascertained. From the moon we may step to
Venus, to Mercury, to Mars, to Jupiter, to Saturn, and last of
all tothe Georgian planet. An object seen by reflected light at
a greater distance than this, it has never been allowed us to