

in the Arteries of slow-moving Animals. 101

explained by various writers, that the blood moves quicker in
the arteries near the heart, than in the remote branches ; and
also, that fluids move more rapidly through tubes which branch
off suddenly from large trunks, than if they had been propelled
for a considerable distance through small-sized cylinders ;
besides which, the frequent communications in the cylinders of
the Bradypus tridactylus must produce eddies, which will retard
the progress of the fluid. From these and a variety of other
facts, which it is not necessary to specify, it will appear, that one
effect upon the animal economy, connected with this arrange-
ment of vessels, must be, that of diminishing the velocity of the
blood passing into the muscles of the limbs. It may be difficult
to determine, whether the slow movement of the blood sent to
these muscles be a subordinate convenience to other primary
causes of their slow contraction, or whether it be of itself the
immediate and principal cause. The facts at present ascertained,
relative to muscular motion, do not authorize me to treat de-
cidedly of the share which the vascular system holds in the
operation of muscular contraction. Certain it is, that a larger
proportion of arteries is sent to the muscles of quadrupeds, than
to the ordinary substances; and the extreme redness of these