off suddenly from large trunks, than if they had been propelled
for a considerable distance through small-sized cylinders ;
besides which, the frequent communications in the cylinders of
the Bradypus tridactylus must produce eddies, which will retard
the progress of the fluid. From these and a variety of other
facts, which it is not necessary to specify, it will appear, that one
effect upon the animal economy, connected with this arrange-
ment of vessels, must be, that of diminishing the velocity of the
blood passing into the muscles of the limbs. It may be difficult
to determine, whether the slow movement of the blood sent to
these muscles be a subordinate convenience to other primary
causes of their slow contraction, or whether it be of itself the
immediate and principal cause. The facts at present ascertained,
relative to muscular motion, do not authorize me to treat de-
cidedly of the share which the vascular system holds in the
operation of muscular contraction. Certain it is, that a larger
proportion of arteries is sent to the muscles of quadrupeds, than
to the ordinary substances; and the extreme redness of these
organs shews that their capillaries are of large diameter. A
greater degree of redness is also observable in those muscles
(of the same animal) which are most frequently called into
action. The habits of life among the tardigrade animals, give
occasion for the long continued contraction of some muscles in
their limbs: these creatures are represented clinging to the
boughs of trees, and remaining thus, without locomotion, for