200 Mr. Home's Account of a small Lobe

that kind. It could not however be. satisfactorily separated
from the prostate gland, nor could any distinct duct be found
leading into the bladder.

A similar examination was made of this part in five different
subjects. The appearance was not exactly the same in any
two of them. In one there was no apparent glandular sub=
Stance, but a mass of condensed cellular membrane: this,
however, on being cut into, differed from the surrounding fat.
In another there was a lobe blended laterally with the sides of
the prostate gland. These facts are mentioned in proof of its
not being always of the same size nor having exactly the same
appearance ; this is found also to be the case with Coweer's
glands, they are sometimes large and distinct ; in other sub-
jects are scarcely to be detected, and in others again are in
all the intermediate states. The most distinct and natural
appearance of this part'was in a healthy subject 25 years of
age, of which the following is an account. On turning off the
vasa deferentia and vesicule seminales, exactly in the middle
of the sulcus, between the two posterior portions of the pro-
state gland, there was a rounded prominent body, the base of
which adhered to the coats of the bladder. It was imbedded
not only between the vasa deferentia and the bladder, but also