
On the supposition that the air, previous to its entering
these cavities, had undergone a partial change from respira-
tion, the results described seem to indicate an absorption of
oxygene.

Other facts might be adduced, which, like the preceding,
though not conclusive, tend to support the idea; that mucous
membranes are capable of absorbing air. Of this Kind, I
conceive, are the results of the experiments of Messrs, MAa-
GENDIE and CHEVREUL, on the composition of the air con-
tained in the human stomach and intestines ;# and very
recently, I have met with a fact, the bearing of which
appears to be similar. In examining the body of a soldier,
who had died of complicated disease, I found the head of the
colon and the ccecum exceedingly distended with air, and of
a bright red colour, as if highly inflamed, whilst the ascend-
ing colon was unusually contracted. The air collected under
water amounted to g6 cubic inches, and consisted of 11 car-
bonic acid gas, or air absorbable by lime-water, and of 8g,
chiefly azote, judging from its extinguishing flame, and not
being itself inflammable. I regret I had not the means of
ascertaining if any traces of carburetted hydrogene were
present.
