244, Dr. Henry's Additional Experiments

It still, however, remains to. be. determined, what is the
8ource of the hydrogene gas, which, in a limited proportion,
is always evolved by the electrization of muriatic acid? Does
it result from the decomposition of water, existing: as an ele-
ment of the gas; or from the disunion of the oxymuriatic acid
and hydrogen, which, according to Sir H. Davy's view, com-
pose muriatic acid? The limitation to its amount, which, it
formerly appeared to-me,* could only be accounted for by the
complete destruction of the water contained in: the gas, may
now be equally well explained, on the principle which I have
Just pointed out. The fact, also, that no appreciable change
of bulk is produced by the electrization of the muriatic acid,
when the presence of mercury is excluded, is perhaps favour-
able to the new theory. For since equal measures of hydro-
gen and oxymuriatic acids afford muriatic acid without any
condensation of volume, 'no alteration of bulk should result
from the disunion of those elements ; and the products should
be equal measures of the same gases. The proportions, which
I obtained. (100 to 140) did: not, it must be acknowledged,
exactly correspond with- the theory ; but the difference was
not greater, than might naturally be expected from the cir-
cumstances of the experiment. That equal measures' of hy=
drogen. and, oxymuriatic acid are really evolved, appears to