respecting this principle, which have been detailed in the pre-
ceding pages. Although I could detect no traces of iron, by
the usual modes of analysis, minute portions of that metal
may, and probably do exist-in it, as well as in the other
animal fluids which I have examined ; but the abundance of
colouring matter in this secretion should have afforded a pro-
portional quantity of iron, did any connection exist between
them. It has been observed that the artificial solutions of the
colouring matter of the blood, invariably exhibit a green tint
when viewed by transmitted light: this peculiarity is remark-
ably distinct in the menstruous discharge.*

I hope that some of the facts furnished by the above expe-
riments, may prove useful to the physiological inquirer: they
account for the rapid reproduction of perfect blood after very
copious bleedings, which is quite inexplicable upon that hypo-
thesis which regards iron as the colouring matter, and may
perhaps lead to the solution of some hitherto unexplained
phenomena connected with the Å¿unction of respiration. There
can, I think, be little doubt that the formation of the colouring
matter of the blood is connected with the renoval of a portion
of carbon and hydrogen from that fluid, and that its yarious
tints are dependent upon such modifications of animal matter,
and not, as some have assumed, upon the different states of
oxidizement of the iron which it has been supposed to contain,