heated in a mercurial bath, the mixture ceased to! expand
between goo* and g10* FAHRENHEIT, and s0on began'to dimi-
nish in volume. On raising the temperature to g40?, and
keeping it some time at that point, no further diminution was
at length perceptible. From the quantity of carbonic acid,
remaining at the. close of the experiment, it appeared that
four-fifths of the oxygen had united with the carbonic oxide,
and only one-fifth with the hydrogen. When four volumes
of hydrogen, two of carbonic oxide, and one of oxygen, were
similarly treated, the hydrogen, notwithstanding its greater
proportional volume, was $till found to have taken only one-
fifth of the oxygen, while four-fifths had combined with the
carbonic oxide. These facts show that at temperatures be=-
tween goo? and - 340% FAnRENarir, the affinity of carbonic
oxide for oxygen is decidedly superior to that of hydrogen;
as, from the experiments before described, appears to be the
case, also, at common temperatures.

But a similar distribution of oxygen, between carbonic
oxide and hydrogen, does not- take- place, when those three
gases are fired together by the electric spark. This will
appear from the following table, in which the three first 'co-
lumns show the quantities of gases that were fired, and the
two last, the quantities of oxygen that were' found to have
united, with the carbonic oxide and with the hydrogen.