one shore to seek another, whatever may be the extent of
intervening seas? The fact seems to be, that we, the /ittle
lords of the creation, are too- prone to. measure the sentient
principle in animals by the scale of our own ideas, and thus,
unwillingly, allow them to possess faculties which may. sur-
pass our own, though peculiarly appropriate to their respec-
tive natures ; but a little reflection must compel us to confess,
that they are endowed with discriminating powers totally
unknown to, and for ever unattainable by man. I have no
objection to admit the possibility that birds may be overtaken
by the cold of winter, and thus be thrown into the: situation
of other animals-which remain torpid at that season ; though
I must own I never witnessed the fact, nor could I ever 9b-
tain evidence on the subject that was to-me satisfactory : but
as it has been often asserted, may I be allowed to suppose,
that some deception might have been practised with the de-
sign of misleading those to whom it might seem to have
appeared obvious ? For far be it from me to insinuate that
the subject has been wilfully misrepresented by those natu-
ralists, who have stated it as a fact. Yet how careful should
we be in the investigation of all subjects in natural history,
which may captivate, by their apparent novelty !

If birds crept into holes and crevices to hibernate, would
they not, like quadrupeds, creep out again in a languid state,