on the migration of birds. 33

works of every naturalist I have ever had access to, who had
written-on the subject, been pointed out as the haw, the fruit
of the white thorn. *

This is an error that has long wanted a correction, for in
open weather they take them in very scanty quantities, and
feed on the ground on worms and such- insects as they can
find. Although repeated examinations of the contents of the
stomach have afforded the best proof of this, yet there is
scarcely any need of calling in its aid in the present instance,
aswe may be convinced of the fact, by seeing them in flocks
feeding on the ground in open fields and meadows. I do not
deny their taking the haw and other vegetable food from the
hedges, but they do it in 80 sparing a way, that I have re-
marked, that red wings and fieldfares die through hunger
during the long continuance of frosty weather, while the
haws on the hedges were by no means deficient. The occa-
sional departure of these and some other winter birds during
a long continued frost, must be very obvious. The greater
number disappear s0on after its commencement, if it sets in
very severely : some few are always left behind and are s00n
Starved, if not fortunately relieved. by a' thaw. Those that
are driven‚Äù to this necessitous migration, probably pursue a