wool to lie in contact with camphor for some time, it be afterwards placed,
even for a very few hours, near a minute portion of snlphuret of barium (which,
it is well known, exhales copiously the fetid odour of sulphuretted hydrogen,)
it quickly loses the camphorous smell, and acquires and even retains in con-
siderable intensity the fetid smell of the sulphuret.

It is proper to mention, that in most of these experiments I did not trust to
my own olfactory organs alone. All the members of the family, and several of
my friends, have lent their aid to distinguish between the different intensities of
the odour which each substance had attracted ; and though only a few experi-
ments are here detailed, similar ones have been many times performed, with
various other odorous substances. The whole of these in their general results
seemed to establish the fact, that the colour of substances exerted a peculiar
influence over the absorption of odours.

In all these experiments, however, reliance had to be placed upon one sense
alone, viz. that of smell, as none of the substances employed had gained any
appreciable weight. I was therefore desirous, that, if possible, at least one
experiment should be devised, which would show, by the evidence of actual
increase of weight, that one colour invariably attracted more of any odorous
substance than another ; and upon considering the various odorous substances
which could be easily volatilized without change, and whose odour was inse-
parable from the snbstance, I fixed upon camphor as the one best suited to my
purpose. In an experiment of this nature, it was necessary that the camphor
should be volatilized or converted into vapour, and that the coloured s8ub-