proportion to its degree, till add to the exhaustion, is the necessary conse-
quence of causes very different from their partaking of the exhaustion which
prevails in the sensitive system. It is in disease alone that they suffer any
degree of exhaustion, which in them produces a different species of debility, not
an exhaustion analogous to that of the sensitive s8ystem ; which it is even a
means of preyenting by impeding the functions of life, and thus indirectly
proving a cause of irritation to this system.

It appears from all that has been said, that in the sensitive s8ystem alone we
find organs capable of exhaustion from all degrees of excitement, and the ex-
haustion of which is consistent with a state of health, namely, the nerves of this
System and those parts of the brain and spinal marrow with which they are
ass0ciated ; but it is a necessary inference from the facts stated in the last
paper I had the honour to lay before the Society, that the former of these only
obey the Jatter, To the latter alone therefore we must look for the exhaustion
which is the immediate cause of sleep.

The parts of the brain and spinal marrow which are associated with the
nerves and muscles of the sensitive system, gradually, from the effect of the
usual stimulants of life, suffer such a degree of exhaustion that those stimn-
lants can no longer excite them ; and their functions, unless stronger stimu-
lants be applied, necessarily cease. Impressions from external objects conse-
quently are no longer perceived, and therefore cannot produce their usual
effects either on mind or body. Thus the-expenditure of excitability in those
parts of the brain and spinal marrow, and consequently in the neryes and mus-