paring the various facts relating to the circulation of the blood, and by such
additional experiments as seemed to be required, to free the subject from the
confusion in which it had been involved by the various and contradictory ex-
periments and statements of writers, and to ascertain the source and nature of
the powers on which the motion of the blood depends.

In the present paper I propose to consider in the same way, another subject,
of equal importance, intimately connected with the preceding, and which has,
by the same means, been inyolved in equal, and, from its more complicated
nature, apparently greater perplexity ; namely, the relation which subsists be-
tween the nervous and muscular systems, and consequently, between the ner-
vous system and organs of circulation; for I think it will be admitted, from
the statement of facts made in the paper just referred to, that the power of
the vessels, like that of the heart, is a muscular power, and that on the com-
bined power of the heart and vessels, the motion of the blood, in the ordinary
States of the circulation, wholly depends. Having considered this part of the
subject, I shall endeavour to point out how far we can proceed in ascertaining
the nature of the nervous influence, the means by which the relation between
the nervous and muscular systems is maintained.

I need hardly observe that in experimenting on a subject s0 complicated as
the living animal body, much practice as well as caution is necessary in order
to guard against erroneous conclusions, and thus obtain for physiology the
certainty which can alone entitle it to be regarded as a science. There is
none of its: branches which has not suffered-from the inaccuracy of experj-