repeat them as long as any doubt remains on the mind of any individual pre-
sent. Were these rules strictly observed, physiology would cease to be per-
plexed by the inaccuracies in which the inexperienced and precipitate are
constantly involving it.

But this has not been the only cause of perplexity in the snbject I am enter-
ing on. The evil, both here and in other branches of physiology, has, in a
great degree, arisen from writers either having been too apt to enter upon
their inquiries and detail their experiments without having made themselyes
acquainted with the state of our knowledge at the time, and without having
sufficiently weighed what had been done by others, even as far as they were
acquainted with it ; or, when, little had previously been done, having drawn
their inferences from too partial a view of facts. Thus, much confusion and
contradiction have often been introduced even where the immediate results of
their experiments were accurately observed and recorded, and they have been
prevented from 80 directing their labours as to conduce to a gradual and steady
accumulation of knowledge.

As the early physiologists present to us the results of their own imaginings,
without eyen pretending to be possessed of any facts which directly support
them; the later and more rational inquirers have, from the causes just enume-
rated, been often betrayed into conclusions equally erroneous: and even in
making important additions to our knowledge, they have frequently done
what they could to render them useless and sometimes injurious to the cause
of science, which inferences, from a partial view of facts, often are, to a greater