another, and, I conceive, the true cause of this difference.
Had-my object been to give a' correction for difference of
temperature, to be applied generally to the intensities de-
duced from the times of vibration, a closer agreement in the
results would have been desirable ; but although such is not
my object, I wish, from these experiments, to- point out the
necessity of such- correction, when we- would deduce the
magnetic intensity from the times of vibration-of a needle in
different parts of the earth, where the temperatures during
the observations are necessarily different.

The observations which I have detailed are, I think, quite
conclusive as. establishing the fact, that the rays of the sun
had a tendency to check the vibrations of the needle, parti-
cularly those-in the last table; since here, on the needle
being exposed to the sun, the terminal arc was reduced from
nearly 14* to 82?, and again on excluding its rays that arc
was increased to nearly 18*: the only question is whether
this would take place under all circumstances ; that is, whe-
ther the influence be exerted in all cases directly on a mag-
netised needle and independently of changes in its tempera-
ture and intensity, or whether it was an effect produced on
the metal of the box by a change in its temperature. That
the'effect is independent of changes in the temperature and
intensity of the needle will appear from comparing the first