a fixed centre, is the same wherever in the system it is
placed, and the same as if it were in the centre.

Hence it follows, that if two equal and similar magnets be
laid parallel to each other, but in a reversed position on a
horizontal glass plate freely suspended by a thread, the sys-
tem will be devoid of any polar tendency, (which we shall
express by calling such a system neutral). It is difficult
however to procure two magnets exactly equal, and of equal
force. But fortunately this is of no consequence, as a slight
deviation from perfect neutrality may be corrected by inclin-
ing the stronger needle a little more or less to the plane of
the plate. In fact the proposition is general; and by a
proper adjustment of the positions of two magnets however
unequal, with respect to the axis and to each other, they may
be made to neutralize each other.

15. As this adjustment however is nice, and as magnets
influence each other, and our object moreover called for the
utmost delicacy, we adopted a more refined application of the
principle just detailed. A circular glass disc was prepared,
8 inches in diameter, and suspended by three silk threads
from a filament of silk, descending along the axis of a copper
tube about 5 feet long, passing with stiff friction through
collars in the cieling of the apartment, and serving nicely