of the planks, which are always made-to shift where they are
supported by this subsidiary tie: but with the outer planking
which remains, and with the partial assistance of the'braces,
to. say nothing of that of the shelf pieces, it can hardly be
believed, that the tie is more likely to part between two ports
of the same deck, than immediately over one of them.

It has been very ingeniously observed, that arching is not
only a part of the evil occasioned by a ship's weakness, but
that it has an immediate tendency to afford a partial remedy
for the cause which produces it,'by making the displacement
greater at the extremities of the vessel, and smaller'in the
middle: but, in fact, this change appears to be too inconsider-
able in its extent, to produce any material benefit: the strain
at the midships being diminished by each inch of arching only
65 tons, supposed to act at one foot : so that very little relief
is obtained from the change, in comparison with the whole
$train.

The case of the Kent, which broke in a remarkable degree,
notwithstanding the employment of riders of large dimensions,
is perfectly reconcileable with the principles which have been
laid down: indeed these riders, which made an angle of a few
degrees only with a vertical line, could have s0 little effect
either on the strength or on the stiffness of the structure, that