confounded with those powers more strictly called vital, it is only an agent
employed by them. This view of the subject seemed-to point out the possIhility
of finding some of those powers which operate in inanimate nature capable of
the functions of the neryous power‚Äù properly s0 called, if brought to operate
under the same cireumstances; and on trial it was found, as appears from ex-
periments published in the Philosophical Transactions of 1822 and 1828, and
repeated with the same result by Dr. ABgL*, M. BrecayerH and others, that
galvanism may be substituted for the neryous power, not only in the more
simple, but in the more complicated functions of that power. It not only
appears that galvanism is capable of exciting the muscles and causing an
evolution of caloric from arterial blood, but of forming the secreted fluids
from the blood, and supporting all those functions on which the structure of
the body depends. How far do the whole of these facts, whether relating to
the nature or functions of the neryous power, go in proving its identity with
galvanism ?

On reviewing what has been said of the relations of the sensorial, nervous,
and muscular powers, the question naturally arises; If both the nervous and
muscular powers are thus independent of the sensorial power, and capable of
their functions after it is withdrawn, why do the more perfect animals for s0
$hort a time survyive the loss of the sensorial functions ? The cause is, that on the
removal of the sensorial power, respiration' ceases; because this function par-
takes of all the three powers, the sensorial, nervous, and muscular.

It has been customary to speak of the muscles of respiration as at least in