latter being projected, in perspective, on its dark under surface, and there ap-
pearing as white masses fully enlightened by the moon.

Now the two arches of aurora of that evening were abruptly terminated at
the points where they appeared over the eastern edge of the large cloud ; and
the abrupt terminations increased their azimuth distances from the north, as
the arches came southwards, still appearing, in their new positions, over the
east edge of the cloud. The lower extremities of the streamers, which were as
long at these terminations as at any other parts of the arches, appeared even
in contact with the cloud; and I sometimes conceived that they stretched
before its eastern edge: but that part being considerably illuminated by the
moon, prevented me from being quite positive. Independently, however, of
this uncertainty, the appearances are surely decisive of the fact, that the
aurora did not extend into the region occupied by the western cloud ; and
being seen over it at an angle not much higher than its own, occupied there-
fore a region of nearly equal elevation above the surface of the earth.

The conclusions to be drawn from these observations harmonize sufficiently
with an observation of Capt. Parry and Lieuts. SHErER and Ross, who, at Port-
Bowen on the 27th of January, 1825, simultaneously saw © a bright ray of the
aurora shoot snddenly downward from the general mass of light, and between
them and the land, which was then distant only three thousand yards.” (Journ.
of a Third Voyage under the orders of Capt. WiLL1am Parry, R.N. F.R.S. 1826.)
The conelusions are, that the region occupied by the aurora borealis is im-
mediately above, and contiguous to, the region in which aqueous vapour is