This cireumstance perhaps more than any other tended to confirm botanists in
claiming these bodies for the vegetable kingdom, notwithstanding that it was main-
tained by chemists that their structure exhibited more of an animal than a vege-
table nature, and that even s0 early as the sixteenth century the animals of several
had been distinetly described as such by ImeeraT.

'The discoveries and opinions, however, of this observer, who appears to have been
the first to ascertain the animal nature of these Zoophytes, as well as the observations
of Rumenrvs made upon many of the living corals in the Archipelago, seem to have
been entirely neglected and forgotten; nor does it appear that the botanical theory
was disturbed until a similar discovery to that of ImetraTt was communicated to
the Acad. des Scien. in 1727 by Rzaumur, founded upon the observations of Pzyss0-
NELL, who maintained that the supposed flowers of Marsrcrr were in fact aggregate
animals analogous to Actinia, which latter animal was then, perhaps, the only one of
the class to which a vegetable nature was not generally ascribed.

This communication seems to have directed the attention of naturalists more im-
mediately to the subject, and the subsequent discoveries of TrxEMBLEyY of the naked
Polypi, in 1740, and the investigations of Bernarp de Jussrgu, GueTTarD, LaFilinG
and Doxari, were greatly instrumental in pointing out the true nature of Zoophytes.
But by none was the investigation pursued to s0 great an extent as by the indefati-
gable Errrs, whose systematic work was the first of the kind that appeared upon this
subject. In maintaining the entire animality of Zoophytes Erxrs was strongly op-
posed by Lixxzvus, BasTER, and PaLLas, who till holding an opinion midway between
the two that divided naturalists, maintained that they were of a mixed nature, partly