with supernumerary Fingers and Toes. 97

always be desirable, that more reasonable inductions may be
established concerning the laws which direct this interesting
part of creation: and it might be attended with the most im-
portant consequences, if discovery could be made of the rela-
tive influence of the male and female sex in the propagation
of peculiarities, and the course and extent of hereditary cha-
racter could be ascertained, both as it affects the human race
in their moral and physical capacities, and as it governs the
creatures which are subdued for civilized uses. Nor is it alto-
gether vain to expect, that more profound views, and more
applicable facts await the researches of men, who have as yet
only begun to explore this branch of natural history, by sub-
Jecting it to physical rules.

Though the causes which govern the production of organic
monstrosities, or which direct the hereditary continuance of
them, may for ever remain unknown, it still seems desirable
to ascertain the variety of those deviations, and to mark the
course they take, where they branch out anew, and where
they terminate. There js doubtless a general system in even
the errors of nature, as is abundantly evinced by the regular
series of monstrosity exhibited both in animals and vege-
tables.