
ther corroborated by the peculiar taste of the infusion. Now,
as every particle of the bandages had been equally died with
this vegetable solution ; and as it appears evident, from-other
circumstances, that such a process had not been adopted for
the sake of giving to the envelopes of the mummy the par-
ticular colour in question, may we not infer that the Egyp-
tian embalmers were acquainted with the antiseptic power
of astringent and slightly bitter vegetable infusions, a power
which modern discoveries have attributed to the presence of
the peculiar principle already mentioned ?

This inference is confirmed by the second fact to be noticed,
namely, the appearance and condition of the integuments,
which, besides being of a dark brown colour, differ in no
respect from prepared leather, particularly those of the abdo-
men, the thighs, and the mammz. The Society will have an
opportunity of examining several portions of these integu-
ments, and will be struck with the similarity alluded to.
Indeed they might be taken for prepared leather at first
Sight, and the knowledge which 1 obtained, by a second series
of experiments, that a solution of some vegetable astringent,
similar to that used for the bandages, but much stronger, had
been employed to produce that appearance, must prove con-
clusive on this point. A question then will naturally arise,