8. The reference of the phenomena of the tides to mechanical principles by rigor-
ons reasoning has not yet been executed; and we can see enough of the difficulties
of the snbject to believe that it will probably be some time before this problem can
be fully solved. In the meanwhile, we have an intermediate type of comparison for
the facts, in the equilibrium theory of BzrxouLLi: for that theory, by modifying the
epochs and other elements, may be made to represent in an approximate manner the
laws of the phenomena. Nor does it appear to be too much to expect, that it may
hereafter be rigorously shown from mechanical principles, that the form of an irre-
gular moving fluid mass, constantly dragged along by certain forces, shall at every
instant resemble the form of equilibrium which the forces would produce at some
anterior epoch, the anterior epoch being somewhat different for the different features
of the fluid form. If snch a hydrodynamical proposition could be established, almost
all the facts hitherto discovered respecting the tides would be fully explained.

9. The materials of the following researches are the tide observations made at
Plymouth in the years 1834, 1835, 1836, and 1837, under the direction of the Dock
Master and Assistant Dock Master ; and the observations made at Bristol in 1834,
1835, 1836, 1837, by direction of the Dock Committee.

The Plymouth observations were discussed by Mr. Dzss10U and Mr. D. Ross of the
Hydrographer's Office, whose valuable services were placed at my disposal by the
Hydrographer, Captain Bzeavrorr. The Bristol observations were discussed by
Mr. Bux, whom I was enabled to engage in this employment by means of grants
voted for that purpose at the Meetings of the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science which took place in 1836 and 1837.