1605. There are, nevertheless, some experiments which illustrate the connection.
Two platina wires, forming the electrodes of a powerful voltaic battery, were placed
side by side, near each other, in distilled water, hermetically sealed up in a strong
glass tube, some minute filaments being present in the water. When, from the evo-
lation of gas and the consequent increased pressure, the bubbles formed on the elec-
trodes were 80 small as to produce but feebly ascending currents, then it could be
observed that the filaments present were attracted and repelled between the two wires,
as they would haye been between two oppositely charged surfaces in air or oil of tur-
pentine, moving 80 quickly as to displace and disturb the bubbles and the currents
which these tended to form. Now I think it cannot be doubted that under similar
circumstances, and with an abundant supply of electricity, of sufficient tension also,
convective currents might have been formed; the attractions and repulsions of the
filaments were, in fact, the elements of such currents (1572.), and therefore water,
though almost infinitely above air or oil of turpentine as a conductor, is a medium in
which similar currents can take place.

1606. I had an apparatus made (fig. 28.) in which a is a plate of shell-lac, b a fine
platina wire passing through it, and having only the section of the wire exposed above;
c a ring of bibulous paper resting on the shell-lac, and d distilled water retained by
the paper in its place, and just sufficient in quantity to cover the end of the wire b;
another wire, e, touched a piece of tin foil lying in the water, and was also connected
with a discharging train; in this way it was easy, by rendering 6 either positive or
negative, to send a current of electricity by its extremity into the fluid, and s0 away

by the wire e.