able to, and consistent with the view I have adopted. Such are most cases of elec-
tro-chemical decompoxsition, electrical brushes, auras, sparks, &c. ; but as these might
be considered equivocal eyidence, inasmuch as they include a current and discharge,
(though they have long been to me indications of prior molecular action (1230.)) I
endeayoured to devise such experiments for first proofs as should not include transfer,
but relate altogether to the pure simple inductive action of statical electricity.

1217. It was also of importance to make these experiments in the simplest possible
manner, using not more than one insulating medium or dielectric at a time, lest dif-
ferences of slow conduction should produce effects which might erroneously be snp-
posed to result from induction in curved lines. It will be unnecessary to describe
the steps of the investigation minutely ; I will at once proceed to the simplest mode
of proving the facts, first in air and then in other insulating media.

1218. A cylinder of solid shell-lac, 0'9 of an inch in diameter and seven inches in
length, was fixed upright in a wooden foot (fig. 3.) : it was made concave or cupped at
its upper extremity 80 that a brass ball or other small arrangement could stand upon
it. The upper half of the stem having been excited negatively by friction with warm
flannel, a brass ball, B, 1 inch in diameter, was placed on the top, and then the whole
arrangement examined by the carrier ball and CouLoms's electrometer (1180. &c.).
For this purpose the balls of the electrometer were charged positively to about 360*,
and then the carrier being applied to various parts of the ball B, the two were nnin-
sulated whilst in contact or in position, then insulated#, separated, and the charge of
the carrier examined as to its nature and force. Its electricity was always positive,
and its force at the different positions a, b, c, d, &c. (figs. 3. and 4.) observed in suc-