to obey both stimulants and sedatives as readily as parts more evidently mus-
cular, It appears from many experiments related in my 'Treatise on the Vital
Functions, that the action of the capillary vessels is as easily influenced both
by stimulants and sedatives as the heart itself; and although the larger vessels
are not 80 easily excited artificially as the heart and muscles of yoluntary
motion, yet seyeral physiologists have succeeded in exciting them both by
mechanical and chemical agents, But there is another argument in fayour of
the muscularity of the yessels, which, I think, may be regarded as no less
powerful, I endeayoured, in papers which I had the honour to present to the
Society, and which appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for 1815, to
ascertain the relation which the heart bears to the neryous system, which is
different from that of the muscles of voluntary motion. It appears from the
facts there adduced, that this organ is not only independent of that system,
although capable of being influenced through it either by means of stimu-
lants or sedatives, and that even to the instantaneous destruction of its power;
but that it equally obeys either et of agents, whether applied to the brain or
spinal marrow; while the muscles of voluntary motion obey no stimulus acting
through the nervous system, unless it be applied to their nerves themselves or to
the particular parts of that system from which their nerves arise. I found from
repeated experiments that the yessels bear the same relation to the neryous
system as the heart does, their power being independent of this system, but
equally with the heart capable of being influenced by either stimulants or
sedatives applied either to the brain or spinal marrow, and that eyen to the
instantaneous destruction of their power. They in all respects bear the same
relation to the nervous system with the heart, which affords the strongest