which, at the same time that it allowed sufficient air to pass, seemed, from the
appearance of the tube afterwards, to have excluded every impurity.

71. There are two conditions of the finished glass, each of great importance,
which it is the object of the process to obtain in this state of the s8ub-
stance. One, and the most essential, is the absence of all striz and irregu-
larities of composition; the other, the absence of eyen the most minute bubbles.
The first is obtained by agitation and perfect mixture of the whole ; the latter,
principally by a state of repose: s0 that the means required to be successful on
both points are directly opposed to each other. Were the glass absolutely
incapable of change by the long-continued action of heat, it would Ã¾e easy first
to render it uniform by stirring, and then to leave it in a quiescent state, until
the bubbles had disappeared; but I am not yet fully assured of the fact which is
necessary to this order of proceedings. That the glass as far as proportions are
concerned, if changed at all, is altered only in an extremely minute and inap-
preciable degree, is shown by some experiments, in which, after a portion
had been prepared and heated for many hours, and also stirred well, the resulting
piece was divided into smaller portions, and these heated at different tem-
peratures, in platina trays, for sixteen hours. Three portions were heated as
powerfully as the furnace would admit of; three only to redness, which may be
considered as a very low heat ; and three to an intermediate degree: all were
cooled slowly and annealed for an equal time. The specific gravities of each
after the experiments were as follows :

Highest heat . . 5.4206 . 5.4211 . 5.4203 , . Mean sp. gr. 5.42066