a very fortunate one, both as it appears to me decisive, and as
it may induce future observers to direct their attention to this
phenomenon.

Admitting the validity of this new observation, which, I
think, cannot well be called in question, I proceed now to de-
duce from it the following inferences.

1. It confirms, to a degree of evidence, all the selenotopo-
graphic observations I have been so snccessful as to-make, on
the various and alternate changes of particular parts of the
lunar atmosphere. Tf the inferior and more dense part of this
atmosphere be, in fact, of suflicient density to reflect a twi-
light over a zone of the dark hemisphere 2* g4/,'or 104 geogr.
miles in breadth, which shall in intensity exceed the light re-
flected upon its dark hemisphere by the almost wholly illu-
minated disk of our earth ; and if, by an incidental computa-
tion, this dense part be found to measure 1336 Å¿eet in per-
pendicular height, it may, according to the strictest analogy,
be asserted, that the upper, and gradually more rarified strata,
must, at least, reach above the highest mountains in the moon.
And this will appear the more evident, if we reflect that, not-
withstanding the inferior degree of gravitation on the surface
of the moon, which NEwToN has estimated at somewhat less
than + of that on 'our earth, the lower part of its atmosphere