known. $0 true is this, that the very order of their affinities has also, for a
considerable period, been acknowledged as greatly within the control of this
agent. With this object in view, the electrical influence, as exhibited in the
ordinary way, as well as by the Voltaic battery, has successively confirmed its
results in the experiments of NicaoLson, Cavenpisn, Sir H. Davy, Crit-
DREN, and the French chemists. This being the case, it is not my purpose to
advert to any new source of electrical accumulation, but to describe what ap-
pears to me as the link connecting the researches of Dr. FraxkLNn with the
electro-chemical theory of Sir H. Davy. With this view, in August 1824, I
elevated the kite in an atmosphere favourable to the exhibition of its pheno-
mena. It was raised from an apparatus firmly fixed in the earth, and was in-
sulated by a glass pillar. The usual shocks were felt on touching the string,
which simple fact I am induced to mention from the cireumstance of no elec-
trometer having been employed. The portion of string let out with a double gilt
thread passed through it, was about five hundred yards. I then made the con-
nection shown in the accompanying sketch, where the straight glass tubes A B,
having platina wires passed from above half way down their axes, and standing
in their respective glass cups CD, were filled with a solntion of sulphate of
soda coloured with syrup of violets, connected also with each other by the bent
glass tube E, likewise filled with the above solution in the usual manner. A
portion of gilt thread d was then brought from the tube at A and united to the
kite-string K, whilst a similar thread 6 was carried from B to the earth. Bub-


166 MR. BARRY ON THE CHEMICAL ACTION OF ATMOSPHERIC ELECTRICITY.