ſtances, a, part of \it-will be imbibed by: the water in
which:it-ſtands); but. it-may be preſumed, that in: this
caſe;1there was-a mixture: of fixed air,extrafted from
the-ſubſtance: along with it. | I haye indiſputable
evidence, -however,- that- inflammable 1air,) ſtanding
long/in water, | has aRtually loſt all its inflammability;
and even-come to extinguiſh flame: much\more-thary
that-1air in: which/candles have, burned//out; [After
this|change. it} appears-to.-be greatly: diminiſhed:/in
quantity, and. it ſtill; continues to; killanimals-the
moment/they/are-put into. it, 0) 100

:'This-very remarkable fact firſt occurred:to-my ob
ſervation” on the twenty-ffth of May-1 771; when:
was-examining.a quantity, of-inflammable air; which
had|been-. made! from-zind,:near three years! before;
Upow this, -I' immediately ſet; bya;common!:quart
bottle: filled with! inflammable -air +from-1iron,; and
another equal | quantity | from zinc ; and examining;
them in. the: beginning-of December:following,: thati
from the iron-yas reduced-neat! ons halt in» quantityg
if \L be pot, greatly miſtaken; for. I found:the bottle,
balf-full of water,/-and Lamopretty clear-that-it; was
full of ai when it was-fet by,»/Dhat-which had'
Wilidecr been