IN a communication to this Society which was read on the 12th December, 1839,
I described four great plexuses under the peritoneum of the gravid uterus, which had
an extensive connection with the hypogastric and spermatic nerves. From their form,
colour, and general distribution, and their resemblance to ganglionic plexuses of
nerves, and from their branches actually coalescing with those of the hypogastric
and spermatic nerves, I was induced to believe, on first discovering them, that they
were nervous ganglionic plexuses, and constituted the special nervous system of the
uterus.

Subsequent dissections of the unimpregnated uterus, and of the gravid uterus in
the third, fourth, sixth, seventh and ninth months of pregnancy, have enabled me not
only to confirm the accuracy of my former obseryations, but to discover the import-
ant fact, that there are many large ganglia on the uterine nerves, and on those of the
vagina and bladder, which enlarge with the coats, blood-vessels, nerves, and absorb-
ents of the uterus during pregnancy, and which return after parturition to their
original condition before conception takes place.

The uterus and its appendages are wholly supplied with nerves from the great
sympathetic and sacral nerves. At the bifurcation of the aorta, the right and left
cords of the great sympathetic nerye unite upon the anterior part of the aorta, and
form the aortic plexus. This plexus divides into the right and left hypogastric
nerves, which s0on subdivide into a number of branches to form the right and left
hypogastric plexus. Each of these plexuses, having the trunk of the hypogastric
nerve continued through its centre, after giving off branches to the ureter, perito-
neum, rectum, and trunks of the uterine blood-vessels, descends to the side of the