those experiments, that the colour of this outstanding ultra-violet ray was not pro-
perly that of any received prismatic tint; but this, at the time, T attributed to the
great and progressively increasing faintness of the rays in question not making suffi-
cient impression on the eye to allow of any decision as to their colour. This view of
the matter, however, is incorrect. The following experiment will show, that these
rays when 80 concentrated as to possess an unequivocal illuminating power, still Â«how
no colour, but that sort of imperfect white which is best distinguished by the terms
grey, ash-colour, layender-colour, or snch expressions. As orange, indigo, and violet,
vegetable tints, are used for those of the prismatic hues, I may be allowed to express
by the epithet lavender the rays which produce the tint in question, rather for the
purpose of abbreviating the uncouth appellation of w{tra-violet, and avoiding the am-
biguity attaching to the term chemical rays (which exist in all regions of the spec-
trum) than for that of laying any undue stress on the observed fact.

57. A $spectrum from a highly refractive and dispersive flint-glass prism, the com-
panion to the crown prism before mentioned, and, like it, the personal gift of Fraun-
HoFER, of faultless purity and perfect workmanship, was thrown on the same crown
lens as in the last experiment. This was purposely placed at once oblique to the in-
cident light, and out of the plane of dispersion of the prism, or that plane to which
its refracting edge is perpendicular, Moreover, it was 80 arranged that the spectrum
might fall on any part of the lens, above, below, or on either side of its centre, Under
these circumstances, it is easy to give excessive concentration to light of any given
degree of refrangibility, the rest being thrown aside into long, coloured caustics. In
fact, the image of the spectrum is thus bent and distorted into curvilinear forms, the
general type of which may be assimilated to the letter C lengthened and flattened,