they have decayed, present a homogeneous black or brown mass ; and where no such
decompoxition has supervened, the vegetable tissues are 80 preserved that their real
nature is evident. We are not, however, prepared to lay any particular stress upon
this point, because, even if it be allowed that these nodules present a fair sample of
the vegetable constituents of the coal surrounding them, it does not follow that the
8ame assemblage of species has formed other coals; we may however remark, that
with regard to some bituminous coals at any rate, we are inclined to regard the
appearance of fibrous tissues as due to a molecular arrangement of the particles of
that mineral, which no doubt bad its origin in vegetable matter, but in which every
trace of structure has been destroyed previous to, or during its mineralization.

The absence of Calamites (one of the most typical and nniversal of coal plants) is
another curious fact connected with these fossils; the explanation is however very
simple, for it has long been known to one of us, that some species of this genus repre-
sent the casts of the hollow or cellular axis of Sigillaria and Calamodendron, and
perhaps of many other genera, as Sternbergia does of Dadoxylon; this is a subject
however to which we shall recur at another time, when, having completed the analysis
of the specimens of Calamodendron contained in these nodules, we sball hope to lay
the results before the Royal Society. In the mean time we $hall proceed to describe
the structure of Trigonocarpon, the most interesting of the genera which we have
named.

The asual form in which Trigonocarpon occurs is well known, and has been repeatedly
figured. That this, however, was that of an incomplete organ has long been con-
sidered probable, and almost confirmed by the discovery of such specimens as those