second surface of calcareous spar, enables us to explain the
curious fact observed by MALvs, relative to the light reflected
from the interior surface of doubly refracting crystals: He
discovered” that the ray refracted ordinarily at the -second
surface was reflected at this surface in two pencils, one ordi-
nary, and the other extraordinary ; and that the ray refracted
extraordinarily at the second surface, was also reflected in
two pencils; $0 that there were four reflected rays, and only
two emergent ones. These four rays returning to- the first
surface of the crystal, emerge in four parallel pencils, which
form with this surface the same angle as the incident ray.

The cause of this singular fact will be understood from
Fig. 5, where ABCD' is a piece of calcareous spar, and mn, pe,
the lines within the crystal at which the extraordinary refrac-
tion takes place. A ray of light RS will be divided into two
pencils Sa, Sb, which will emerge in lines a, bÞ, parallel to
RS. The reflected portions bd, ac will be subdivided at c and
d, just as if they had been incident in the directions #6, « a,
and will form four pencils ce, cf, dh, dg, which is the pheno-
menon observed by MaLus.” In order to show experimen-
tally that the rays a «, bÞ are subdivided at c and d, when
received upon the rhomboid in the directions 9b, x a, cement

* I 5hall haye occasion to consider this law in a subsequent Paper. I have stated