very usnal, although small, component of volcanic rocks.

It is not unlikely that the remarkable fertility possessed by soils derived from the
decomposition of some varieties of lava may be, in part at least, due to the presence
of this phosphate in the original rock, although much mnst of course be ascribed to
the alkali, especially potash, which these substances contain, and which is gradually
brought by the continued process of disintegration into a soluble state. There can
be little doubt that the matter erupted from time to time from the interior of the
earth, in a state of Å¿usion, is thus destined to renew the surface from which the
more valuable and more soluble components have gradually been removed by the
action of water and other causes constantly in operation. If it should hereafter be
found on a more extended investigation that phosphoric acid, although present in all
igneous rocks, is most abundant in those of modern date, the fact will thus receive
an explanation, the more ancient lavas having been most changed by the slowly-act-
ing and almost imperceptible causes in question. One might be tempted to consider
lava as a kind of fundamental material, from the subsequent alteration of which all
others are derived, and expect it to contain, here and there at least, traces of all the
elementary bodies known, even those most rare. In the present case, it cannot be
altogether devoid of interest to trace to its first source the enormous quantities of
phosphoric acid, for the most part locked up in a temporarily insoluble condition in
the vegetable and animal kingdoms, and in the various strata of calcareous and sedi-
mentary deposits, in the formation of which organized beings have played s0 promi-
nent and s0 important a part.

6 Coventry Street,