path of the exploſion was luminous all the way, and
ſcemed to conſiſt of a prodigious number of ſmall
ſeparate ſparks, ſcattered to a great diſtance, exhi-
bitiog ſuch an appearance as would be made by
firing gunpowder (catered carelefly in a line. 'The
exploſion very much reſembled the firing of a fquib.
To compare it to another eleQric appearance, it
was like the exploſion paſſing through a thin fur-
face of gilding.

I imagine that, though I could not perceive any
interruption in this white coating, not even- by the
help of a microſcope, it muſt, in fact, have been full
of interſtices, and the eleftric ſparks could only 'be
viſible in paſſing from and conduRting one particle to
another.

In this experiment, I often got pieces of glaſs very
imperte&tly covered, with intervals in the white
coating very large and viſible ; but, though! I expoſed
the ſame pieces of glaſs to catch more of this mat-
ter, I never could get a coating of it ſo thick, but
that, in tranſmitting the eleErical exploſion through
it, it exhibited the ſame luminous appearance, as if
there were interſtices in the circuit.