the five years terminating June 30, 1848, were received at Woolwich, from Toronto,
precisely in the state in which they are printed in the second and third volumes of
the © Obseryations at the Toronto Observatory”; namely, the readings, uncorrected for
temperature, at every hour of G6ttingen time, arranged in Monthly tables, accom-
panied by corresponding tables of the temperature of the magnets, shown by thermo-
meters of which the balls were enclosed in the same case with the magnets, and
which were read contemporaneously with the Bifilar and Vertical Force scales. The
Monthly tables of the scale-readings and of the temperatures were summed before
their transmission to Woolwich, both in vertical and horizontal columns, and means
were taken of all the days in the month at the different hours, and of all the hours of
the day on the different days, forming © hourly means” and © daily means.” In this
sﬆtate the observations were received at Woolwich and subsequently printed; they
were, in fact, printed from the original manuscripts.

The first step taken at the office at Woolwich was to rewrite the whole of the
obseryations of the five years in scale-divisions, corresponding to the respective
readings, but reduced to a uniform temperature of 55®, which was taken as a conve-
nient approximate mean temperature : for this purpose each of the observations had to
receive a correction, proportioned to the difference between the recorded contempo-
raneous reading of the thermometer and the standard temperature of 55®%, and com-
puted by a coefficient representing the change in the scale-reading produced by an
alteration of 1® of the thermometer. The coefficient was obtained directly from the
observations themselves, by ascertaining the factor which would best satisfy the differ-

MDCCCLVI. 3B