but in course of time I hope to bring together a sufficient number of data to enable
us to connect together some of those links in the great chain of causation which
regulates the gradation and amount of precipitation at yarious altitudes above the
earth's surface.

I am fully aware that the physical law indicated by these results, is at variance
with the experiments of many careful observyers, and with the inferences drawn from
them by scientific men of the highest standing. But, with every deference to the
opinions and deductions of these eminent authorities, it must be admitted that they
have been arrived at from somewhat scanty materials. So far as my knowledge ex-
tends, no investigation of any extent or continuity had been made in this department
of meteorology previously to that set on foot in the Lake District, about three years
ago. The facts previously on record, with few exceptions, referred to comparatively
moderate altitudes, mostly under 1000 feet, and as some of the experiments were
made on the mountain breasts, the results would vary greatly, according to the gra-
dient and position of the acclivity, and as the gauges were placed either on the
windward or leeward side of the hill; regard must also be paid to the season of the
year, for a gauge which in summer receives considerably more rain than the valley,
may in winter obtain less ; and where the instruments are read off at long intervals,
there will be no inconsiderable loss from evaporation. Moreover, experience Ccon-
vinces me that little dependence can be placed on the results obtained from gauges
stationed on the side of a hill, with whatever care they may bave been secured. For
there cannot be a doubt, that a pluviometer placed on the breast of a mountain, even
on the windward side, will receive much less rain than it would do if stationed on a
hill-top of equal eleyation.