scanty basis 8ubstance; they are quite devoid of basement membrane, and measure
only ;â€”59th of an inch towards their terminal extremity. The mode which I have
adopted of examining the ducts may be thought by some to he objectionable, on the
ground that the extremities of the ducts must necessarily be lacerated ; but I think a
careful repetition of the process I have indicated, will satisfy the observer that it
offers the most probable means for deciding the point in question ; in fact I know of
no other except injection which can be adopted, and I am satisfied that in this case
the results of injection are not to be depended on. To one remarkable character of
the ducts which has been mentioned I would ask especial attention, viz. the long
course which the smaller ramifications take without giving off branches. I have ob-
served one which ran 2th of an inch without giving off any branches, and another
which gave off only one branch in a course of 45th of an inch. When we take into
consideration this fact, and remember also how minute the terminal extremities of
the ducts become, and that they are not unfrequently seen distinctly closed, it will
appear quite certain that the ducts can have no actual connection with the surround-
ing parenchyma, 80 as to envelope and contain it in their terminal expansions, as
some have suppozed. The real relation of the ducts to the parenchyma is, I think,
well shown by a peculiarity in their condition which I have noticed as of tolerably
frequent occurrence ; when this exists there are found in the parenchyma numerous
masses of more or less deep biliary tinge, consisting apparently of large yellow gra-
nules enclosed in an envelope ; when a duct is dissected out, these yellow masses are
found adhering to it at various parts of its circumference ; they are manifestly not
in the cavity of the duct, but simply adherent to it. That these yellow masses origi-
nate in the secreting parenchyma is I think indubitable; they evidently consist of
biliary matter ; but this seems to have undergone some change, which has rendered it