texture, in which the grains are often pretty large, $0 as to he
easily distinguishable by the naked eye. When these pieces are
in a perfect state, the grains have exactly the same colour, and
the same degree of semi-transparency, as those of the preceding
more compact kind. If examined with a lens, the laminated tex-
ture of these grains is very evident; and there seems to be, at
the first view, a very distinct crystal in each of them, But, if
we endeavour to determine the form of any one of these crystals,
we find that it is absolutely impossible to do 80; as the greatest
part of the small facets we perceive, are nothing more than
facets formed by compression. I thought, indeed, that I could
distinguish some traces that indicated an obtuse rhomboid; but
not in such a manner as to permit me to state the fact with
certainty. 'These grains have but a weak degree of adherence to
each other; in consequence of which, the stone may often be
broken by a very slight effort.

It is, however, still more common to meet with this substance
in a state wherein it has undergone, at the surface of each of
the grains of which it is composed, an incipient decomposition,
that gives them a whiter colour, thereby obscuring, and indeed
often destroying, that semi-transparency which I mentioned
as being a character of this substance, in its two preceding
states. When this is the case, if some pieces of the stone are
put into nitric acid, an effervescence s00n takes place, the