terior still existing ; but the auditory nerve has become now quite solidified, 80 that
no communication exists at this period between it and the ventricular cavity. From
the description which I have already given, a marked similarity may be observed be-
tween the origin of this membrane and that of the retina and optic nerve; these parts
arise in both cases as a protruded portion of the cerebral mass, being hollow and
communicating with the cavity of the parent cell; in process of time a gradual sepa-
ration takes place between them and the parts from which they arise; they then assume
a pyriform shape, but still communicate with the cerebral cavity ; as however the
nerve becomes solidified and more fully formed, and the separation between them is
more fully effected, then no communication can be traced between the two cavities.
It is in this stage of the development of the auditory apparatus in the Bird, that a
remarkable similarity is to be observed between it and the normal condition of the
same part in some of the lower animals. There are in fact now formed the two
elementary portions of this apparatus, the auditory nerve and its vesicular bulb (the
analogue of the vestibular sac). Such is the simple condition of this organ in the
crustacea and in the cephalopod mollusks.

I shall, in the next place, proceed to describe the observations I have made on the
development of the semicircular canals, or rather of those portions of the mem-
branous labyrinth which line those cavities, and which are found superadded in most
Birds, Fishes, and Mammalia.

At the seventy-second hour (fig. 16) the vestibular sac has become more distinctly
separated from the cavity from which it originated, but is connected with it by the
auditory nerve, which is fully formed and of large size; the vesicle is still quite hollow,