
magnetic elements at Toronto and Hobarton to state ;—that in the months from
October to February the magnetic needle more nearly approaches the vertical direc-
tion at both stations, and from April to August the horizontal direction ;—and that
the total force is greatest at both stations from October to February, and least from
April to August.

It is much to be desired that 80 remarkable a result should receive a full con-
firmation, by the continuance of the observations at 'Toronto and at Hobarton for 8uch
an additional period as may appear necessary for that purpose ; and that the general
conelusion indicated by the observations at those stations should be verified by simi-
lar investigations in other parts of the globe, especially at the observatories which
now exist. The facts, as far as they go, indicate the existence of a general affection
of the whole globe having an annual period, and would appear to conduct us natu-
rally to the position of the earth in its orbit as the first step towards an explanation
of the periodic change*. It might possibly be regarded as premature, in the present
stage of the inquiry, to enter on the discussion of such physical hypotheses as may
present themselves on the snupposition of a causal connection of this nature; but it
cannot be open to the same objection, to press on the consideration of those who are
engaged in experimental researches in terrestrial magnetism, (or of others who may
have it in their power, from station or influence, to give countenance or support to
those who are s0 engaged), the importance of following up without delay, and in the
most effective manner, a branch of the research which gives 80 fair a promise of
establishing a conclusion of s0 much theoretical moment upon the basis of competent
experimentF.