the undulations are related in magnitude nearly as the numbers
8,7, and 6; and that each of the particles is capable of being
put in motion less or more forcibly, by undulations differing
less or more from a perfect unison ; for instance, the undula-
tions of green light being nearly in the ratio of 64, will affect
equally the particles in unison with yellow and blue, and pro-
duce the same effect as a light composed of those two species :
and each sensitive filament of the nerve may consist of three
portions, one for each principal colour. Allowing this statement,
it appears that any attempt to produce a musical effect from
colours, must be unsuccessful, or at least that nothing more
than a very simple melody could be imitated by them ; for the
period, which in fact constitutes the harmony of any concord,
being a multiple of the periods of the single undulations, would
in this case be wholly without the limits of sympathy of the
retina, and would lose its effect; in the same manner as the
harmony of a third or a fourth is destroyed, by depressing it to
the lowest notes of the audible scale. In hearing, there seems
to be no permanent vibration of any part of the organ.

HYPOTHESIS IV,

All material Bodies have an Attraction for the ethereal Medium,
by means of which it ts accumulated within their Subslance, and
for a small Distance around them, in a State of greater Density,