before. discovered ; for there was an inverted image B, vertical
to a, an erect image C, both of them very perfect and well de-
fined, and an image v w.of the sea between them, the water
appearingyvery distinctly, As the-ship was coming up towards
the horizon, I continued to .observe it, in order'to discover the
variations. which might follow, and found, that as the ship
approached- the horizon, the image C gradually disappeared,
and-at last it yanished ; after. that, the image vw of the sea
disappeared ;. and during this time the image B descended;
but the/ship. did not rise s0.near-to the horizon as to bring the
main-masts-together. Had I directed my telescope to the 8ame
point of the horizon a little s0oner, I should have seen the two
images, before. the. ship itself was, visible. In fact, the images
were. visible, when the whole ship was .actually below the ho-
rizon;; for, from the very small part of the mast which was at
first- visible, that part must then have been below the horizon,
and appearedabove it by-the usual refraction ; the altitude of a,
above the horizon, having-then been much less than the in-
.crease. of altitude which arises from the common horizontal
refraction. . The discovery of ships in this manner might, in
Some cases, be of great importance; and, on Such occasions, it
might be worth while to appoint proper persons to make ob-
servations for that purpose.

MDCCXCIX. ; D