of internal dispersion, the dispersed light being a brilliant green, while the trans-
mitted light is yellow.‚Äù Although the distinetion between true internal dispersion
and opalescence was not at the time understood, there could be little doubt from the
nature of the case that the internal dispersion mentioned by Sir David BrewsTeR
was, in fact, an instance of the former of these phenomena ; but I could not try for
want of a specimen of the salt. Some months ago I received from M. Haipinctr a
Specimen of the first of the salts mentioned at the beginning of this paragraph,
namely M. Quaprar's cyanide of platinum and magnesium, a alt of great optical
interest on account of the remarkable metallic reflexion which it exhibits. On
examining the salt, I was greatly interested by finding that it was highly sensitive,
the fluorescent light being red. This induced me to form some of Gmz1aN's platino-
cyanide of potassium, and I found that the blue light which this salt exhibits in
certain aspects is, in fact, due to fluorescence, a property which the salt possesses in
an eminent degree. Having afterwards received some of the same salt pure from
Professor GREGoRy, I applied it to the formation, on a small scale, of the platino-
cyanides of calcium, barium, strontium, and two or three others. The three salts
last named, of which the second is that mentioned by Sir David Brews, are all
eminently sensitive, the fluorescent light being of different shades of green. It is
only in the solid state that the platinocyanides are sensitive; their solutions look
like mere water, The precipitates which a solution of platinocyanide of potassium
gives with salts of the heavy metals are, in most cases that I have yet observed, in-
sensible. With a solution of pernitrate of mercury, however, a bright yellow pre-
cipitate is produced which is exceedingly sensitive, s0 as to look brighter than even
yellow uranite. The light emitted is yellow. It forms a very striking experiment to
place side by side on the tablet with the second combination a drop of a solution of