daries are formed by portions of several systems, each of which has been in part
removed in the formation of the spaces, as shown in figures 2 and 3, and Plate V.,
which, on being compared with figure 1, will illustrate the difference between the
spaces and canals ; allowance must, however, be made for the difference of size, as
in figure 1 the parts are less magnified than in the other illustrations. In newly-
formed bone situated near ossifying cartilage, the Haversian spaces are exceedingly
numerous and large, frequently affording room for the development of two or more
systems (fig. 5, Plate VI. fig. 24, Plate VIII.), while in older bone they are far less
numerous, and generally less in size. In no case, however, are they wholly absent,
They are found even in the bones of old subjects, and in connection with them newly
developed systems.

This is a very important fact, as it demonstrates that the old tissue is removed in
masses, and a new one developed in its place. It has long been taught that the
older particles of an internal tissue are removed by absorption and new ones substi-
tuted, and this throughout the life of the individual. But the authors believe that
they have demonstrated it for the first time.

On examining with care a series of sections, the Haversian spaces will be found in
various conditions. In one place the space will have attained a large size, while in
another part of the same section its commencement will be seen extending from one
side of an Haversian canal. In a third instance, its occupation will have commenced,
and its festooned margin will be lined by the peripheral lamina of an Haversian
system. Then, again, examples may be found where one side of a space is becoming
the seat of a new s8ystem, while the opposite one is undergoing further enlargement.