Places of Inſition, which began to {well a little, as
uſual about the fourth Day, and the Small Pox did
riſe a little more about thoſe Places than elſewhere;
but Nature was too far oppreſs'd with the violence
of the Diſtemper, and tho* this Girl continued longer
than her Brother, and was not delirous as he was, |
yer ſhe died on. the (cyehth Day. T did nor reck6h
this Child in the Number of thoſe who received the |
Diſtemper by Inocularioh; for I rhobght there was |
ſufficient Reaſon to conclude, that ſhe had taken the
Infeion before 3 but of this I muſt lzaye you to
judge as. you pleaſe, I only give you a Relation of |
Facts. The other two continued well till che eighth *
Day, when they both fell ill together. The Small Pax
came out on. the tenth, of a vety 'good Sort, rhb?
more.in Number than ſome "others hid, and” they
both got very eN thro' the, Diſte<per Withour any
Indiſpoſition ſince, It was obſervable, that the Elder
of theſe Children, about the time of the Eruption,
had- many Spots appcard on him of a deep red Co-
lour, very much like thoſe of the other two Children,
which changed in them to Purples afterwards, "which
the

