.Seours in the special memoir of the French anatomist with respect to the reproductive
Stem ; such an account can hardly be said to be either consistent or intelligible. But
DB QUATREFAGES himself admits that new observations, bien precises, on this subject are
cessary. The author of this memoir hopes that this desideratum will now be supphed.

S Cllorama Duyjardinii is very frequently met with on the Welsh coast of the Bristol
Ehannel. If the principle be conceded that the segmental organ, with its associated
germinal masses, of this Annelid, may be received as expressive of a law applicable to
He entire class, points of clear morphological meaning will now be placed beyond the
Zossibility of controversy. In order to verify by observation the facts now to be nar-
ted, it is necessary that specimens in a suitable condition should be examined at, two
Aifferent Seasons, viz. in May and June, and in August and September. In the indi-
Siduals examined during the former months, the fact will most certainly and easily be
Sstablished, that the ova in the female, and the sperm-cells in the male, are most clearly
nd distinctly contained within the membranous limits of the segmental organ√û. In
Rhose observed later in the season (August and September), the state of things deli-
neated in fig. 23, Plate VIIL., will almost constantly be noted ; viz. that in which the
ovules and sperm-cells have escaped from the segmental organ and accumulated in large
irregular masses (A e ee, female) (B d d, male), which float in the fluid of the general
cavity, but which are bounded by a distinctly limiting membrane. This membrane it is
which prevents the germinal products from entering directly into the free space of the
perigastric chamber ; and obseryation proves that at no stage of their development do

* Ann, d. Se, Nat. tom. xii. 1849.
+ Amongst the original drawings which accompanied this paper to the Royal Society, were Two illustrating