ginal system of passages is even more developed than in Opereuling; and a study of its
distribution will, I think, remove all doubt as to the correctness of my interpretation of
the appearances often presented by sections of the marginal cord in that genus (þ 156).
There is this difference, however, in the relation of the interseptal to the marginal
system of canals in these two types,—that the interseptal canals of Amphistegina appear
to take their origin directly from some of the large superficial passages of the marginal
cord on which the septum abuts, instead of branching from a pair of regular spiral canals
as in Opereulina, no distinct evidence of such canals having here presented itself to me.

170. The relationship of Amphisteging Cumingii to those forms of Nummulites in
which the alar prolongations of the chambers of each whorl are continued, with centri-
petal prolongations of the septa, over the whole surface of the penultimate whorl, is
obviously extremely close; in fact, I can discern no distinguishing character between
these two types, except that which is afforded by the tendency of the last turn of the
Spire of Amphistegina to open out, whilst that of Nummulites closes in. The double-
coned axis of non-tubular s8ubstance would seem to be a distinctive character of Amphi-
8teging; but I am not inclined to lay much $tress upon it, as it presents itself in yery
different proportions in different individuals.

171. Whilst the type which I have now been describing is thus closely related to the
highest because most specialized forms of Foraminiferous organization, it is singular
that the smaller species to which T have referred under the name of A. 9ibbosa 8hould
present such a marked inferiority of conformation. Its spiral lamina is as minutely
tubular as that of its congener ; but I have not been able to detect the least trace of a
system of interseptal canals; and it is especially to be noticed, that the marginal cord,