S$uccessive convolutions. Thus the spine & is one of the oldest, being traceable inwards
to the earlier whorls; whilst those marked &', &, &, &, & are obvyiously of Progressiyely
later production, their respective origins being further and further removed from the
centre of the spire. It is, moreover, to be observed that each spine receives an augmen-
tation in thickness as the convolution from which it sprang is encircled by others; this
augmentation, however, is not marked (as in the spines of Echins) by lines of demarca-
tion between the earlier and the later formations ; and there is every reason to believe
that the growth of the spines, both in length and in diameter, is continuous rather than
interrupted. Although it might seem, from the examination of such sections only as
are taken in the direction of the equatorial plane or in one parallel to it, as if the course
of the spire must be seriously interrupted by the radiation of the spines (which some-
times appear to be s0 interposed between consecutive chambers as completely to separate
them); yet the fact is that owing to the turbinoid form of the spire, a spine projecting
from an earlier whorl is very little in the way of even the next convolution ; for as this
passes by the spine on a different level, its chambers are but slightly encroached-on, and
this only upon the side which looks towards the apex of the spire,—as will be readily
understood by examining the relation of the last half-convolution, visible in such a
specimen as the one delineated in Plate XIX. fig. 4, to the pre-formed spines, or by an
inspection of the ideal represented in Plate XIX. fig. 12.

204. The canal-system of Calcarina presents a development s0 extraordinary in itself,
and 80 obviously related to that of the * supplemental skeleton,” as to throw great light
upon its special functional destination. We do not here observe any such peculiar but
limited distribution of systematically arranged passages, as that which constitutes 80
remarkable a feature in Polystomella; but every portion of the supplemental skeleton,