more mature animals than in the one in the store condition. In the latter, there was
only about twice as much of the total fat coming from the carcass as from the offal;
whereas, taking the average of the four fatter animals—the fat Lamb, the halt-tat Sheep,
the fat Sheep, and the very fat Sheep—there was three times as much of the total fat due
to the carcass as to the offal parts. In even the sfore Pig there was four times as much
of the total fat of the body, in the Carcass, as in the Offal parts; and in the fat Pig there
were from eight to nine times as much fat from the Carcass as from the Offal parts. The
general conclusion would seem to be then, that, perhaps on the average, three-fourths or
more of the total fat of a slaughtered animal, in good condition, will belong to the
carcass parts—that is to say, to those parts which may be reckoned as almost entirely
devoted, in some form or other, as human food.

It has been already seen in Table III, and the column illustrating the fact is repeated
in Table IV., that the percentage of fat in the collective Carcass parts of the fattened
animals amounted to from one-third to one-half, or even more, of the total weight of the
Carcass. We will now consider what was the proportion of the whole animadl at the time
of its being slaughtered, which was nearly, if not quite, pure fat.

In the fifth column of Table IV., the percentage of total fat in the Fasted Live-weight
of the several animals has been calculated by the addition of the respective items
recorded in Table III. In the sixth and last column of Table IV., are given the per
centages of total fat in the Live-weight of the ten animals, obtained, for the purpo86
of control, by another method. In this check column No. 6, the amount of fat obtained
by melting and expression is calculated by the addition of the amounts thus obtained
from the several parts, as in the other case ; but, the fat remaining in the different ,