
and O. As to metals, the lowest number, 12, occurs in No. 85; but the average is far
above this.

These facts may be explained in two ways. We may suppose that the action of the
electric discharge on the molecules which transmit it has in itself intermittences which
tend to produce maxima of light recurring at intervals, and which are effective in doing
80 when the forces inherent in these molecules are in accordance with them. If that
accord be perfect, the development of light will be intense; but if imperfect or wanting,
the corresponding light will be feeble or will vanish. Or it may be supposed that our
metals and gases are compounds of unknown elements which are separated by the dis-
charge, and exhibit their appropriate lines. This hypothesis is tempting, for if true it
would at once lead to analysis of many of our supposed simple substances; and the facts
which have been stated respecting the band No. 49 give some countenance to it. T how-
ever think the first view of the matter more probable, for reasons which I shall s00n
state. According to it, the existence of a luminous line merely indicates the presence
of matter in the circuit; but its intensity depends on the nature of that matter, which
may either make it extremely bright or obscure it, even to invisibility. It is generally
supposed that the presence of a metal gives brilliant lines, and that those due to a gas
or vapour are less bright; but as the two are always simultaneously present it is not
easy to separate their influences. A promising plan of effecting this has been proposed
by PLicker. 'Two balls connected by a capillary tube were filled with any gas and then
exhansted ; the balls were coated with tinfoil, and when they were connected with the
terminals of an induction machine reciprocating discharges took place, which, though
very faint in the globes, were bright enough when condensed in the capillary part to