knowledge, and enables us to construct the problem from ultimate hypotheses which
reduce it to a calculation of combinations.

I pass from the particular and material to the general problem. In the form to which
this is brought by the Calculus of Logic, the probabilities are those of events of which
certain combinations are, as a logical consequence of the original definitions of those
events, impossible. It might, at first sight, appear that this establishes a fundamental
difference between this problem and that of the urn, in which certain combinations are
prevented from issuing by a material hindrance. In the one case the restriction appears
as logically necessary, in the other as only actual.

Upon this I remark, that the data of the problem in its ultimate reduced form might
result from the same kind of dependence as in the actual data; that they, in fact, would
thus result if the mind of the observer were capable of contemplating, and were in a
position to contemplate, each of the events in this ultimate translated form simply as a
whole, and of recording, through an approximately infinite series of obseryations, what
combinations of those wholes come into being, and what do not, in the actual universe.
What appears as necessary in the translated data would now appear as actualâ€”as a
result of observation ; what is impossible would be received as non-existent. The ques-
tion is, then, whether the difference between the conception of what is impossible from
involving a logical contradiction, and the conception of what in the actual constitution
of things never exists, is of a kind to affect expectation. I do not hesitate to say that it
is not. We are concerned with events in so far as they are capable of happening or not
happening, of combining or not combining ; but we are not concerned with the reasons
in virtue of which they happen or do not happen, combine or do not combine. If we