conclusion.

59. The Pressure Theory and the Differential Motion Theory of the Veined Structure
compared.â€”The pressure theory of the yeined structure, s0 far as it asserts the perpen-
dicularity of such surfaces to the directions of maximum pressure, appears to be in perfect
accordance with observed facts and mechanical deductions, whether the structure be
marginal, transverse, or longitudinal. The transversal directions and approximate verti-
cality of the structural surfaces at the bottoms of ice-falls, and the general existence
of the structure wherever the glacier must, from the conditions under which it is placed,
be subject to great pressure, are also perfectly consistent with this theory. We may
also remark that the evidence of facts in fayour of it is in a great measure independent
of the degree of efficiency which may ultimately be attributed to the transmission of the
structural forms. IT am not, indeed, aware of any leading observed facts of the veined
structure inconsistent with this theory.

With respect to the Differential Theory, the whole of the mechanical reasoning on
which it is based is professedly popular, vague, and undemonstrative, and, I believe, as
erroneous as such reasoning must almost necessarily be in cases as intricate as those
which glaciers present to us, unless it be guided by an accurate conception and a careful
analysis of problems which admit of more or less accurate solution, and are typical of
those presented to us in nature. In the marginal structure, this theory could neyer agree
with any very sensible deviation in the directions of the superficial curves of structure
from parallelism with the sides of a canal-shaped glacier. The attempt to correct this
defect by means of what has been called the Ripple 'Theory, will not now, I imagine, be
maintained by any glacialist. The constant existence of the yeined structure under