with the chalk-mud up to a certain point, that one can tell at once to what extent they
have been immersed. From the low density of the diffused protoplasm of the living
forms, the condition of fine division of the carbonate of lime, the slightly increased
density of the water, and the stillness, the transition from a semifluid to a gradually
solidifying mud must be very gradual. There are two ways in which the bodies of the
gponges may support themselves and maintain their position in this treacherous medium,
and both seem to be adopted by different genera. Holtenis stretches out an unlimited
maze of light spreading fibres, thus increasing its surface indefinitely without adding
greatly to its weight. Hyalonems sends down perpendicularly a coil of strong spicules
which gradually spread till they reach a stratum firm enough to give them anchorage.
The question naturally arises, how is this enormously extended layer of animal life
nourished? The dredge brings up no plants from great depths; and although from the
fact that many of the higher invertebrates which are associated with the sponges and
rhizopods have eyes and are brightly coloured, it seems probable that a certain amount
of light penetrates to the abysses ; it certainly does not appear to be in the form which
is necessary for the decomposition of binary compounds by plants. To meet this diffi-
culty it has been suggested that the PROTOZ0A, the Prowsra of HAECKEL, may have the
power, though in a minor degree, of assimilating the elements of water, carbonic acid,
and ammonia*. Tt has appeared to us that the nutrition of this animal layer may be
explained more simply, and that it may even be found to be a necessary complement
to the received doctrine of the © balance of organic nature.” All sea-water contains a
certain quantity of organic matter in solution, or in a state of minute molecular subdi-

This organic matter is derived from the life (by exosmoxis) and the death (by de-
