116 . Myr. CaENnEvix on the Action of

The observation of any new/fact becomes a matter of generat
concern, and truly worthy of /philosophic contemplation,‚Äùther
only, when-its influence iis likely'to be: extended beyond the
Single instance; to which-it owes its discovery. Whether-water
were a-sImple body or a' compound: could have been' of little
importance as; an.insulated fact; but; connected with 'the vast
chain of reasoning it: gave 'rise'to, it: opened a-new'field for
genius to explore. If in the present case our researches were
to be confined merely to-ascertaining whethey palladium were.
a simple metal or a compound, all: the -adyantages likely-to.
arise from the facts observed during the:inquiry would be losty
and an object. of the most comprehensive interest would thus
sink' into,a,controversy Cconcerning-the jexistence-of one more
of those substances, which we have dignified with the name of
elements. ;/It was in this point of view-that Mess! RicuTEr and
R1TTER considered the subject as far as! they went, and a-few
facts are stated in my first Paper in-support of the opinion, that
palladium is but, a particular. instance' of a general truth, 4"

By taking the reasoning on this; subject then; in its; widest
extent,; we: Shall be led; I think, to the-following conclusion :
That metals may exercise an-action'upon. each, other, even in
their-metallic state, capable of-$0- altering 'some;of: their prin-