applied through the Duke of Newcastle, then Foreign Secretary, to the President and
Council of the Royal Society, for encouragement in this undertaking, and advice as to
the best means of carrying it into execution. The s8nbject was not new to that Body.
They had been, conjointly with the Britigh Association, engaged, though ineffectually,
for seyeral years in trying to induce the British Government to adopt a similar planÂ®.
With this object they had appointed a Committee, including several of the brightest
names of British Sciencef, to examine the subject thoroughly and recommend the
plan which they considered most desirable to be adopted. Subsequent to their report,
Mr. Las8ELL had actually constructed a 4-feet Newtonian, which he was using most,
successfully at Malta, M. L. Foucaulr, whose recent death all lament, had invented the
Sllvered glass speculum which bears his name, and Mr. Wanrrex De La Rur had changed
Celestial Photography from a toy into a potent instrument of astronomical research.
These new facts required new discussion, which was carefully made, but resulted in
adopting the former report with little change.

In consequence the legislature of Victoria, acting on the recommendation of our Pre-
s1dent and Council, voted in 1865 the requisite um ; and Mr. GRUBB undertook the con-
struction of this gigantic equatorial, under the direction of a Committee consisting of
the late Lord Rosse, Mr. Warrex DE LA Rvue, and myself. After Lord Rosse's death,
his s0n, the present Earl, was nominated to sncceed him by the President. The instru-
ment has been very successfully completed ; and we hope that a detailed account of its
construction will be acceptable, both from the interest which belongs to the accomplish-
ment of a great undertaking, and because, though the late Lord Rosse and Mr. LAssELL
have published their methods of making large specula, the subject is by no means ex-
hausted, and anything which lessens the difficulties which till beset it, and makes the