bation, may be doubtful : the little evidence to be, obtained on
this point seems in: favour of the former, opinion ; a regular
confirmation of which would improve the knowledge of animal
generation by shewing that it is gemmiferous. There are suf-
ficient analogies of this kind in nature, if reasoning from
analogies were proper for the present occasion.

The punctum saliens, during. its first actions, is not encom-
passed by any fibres discoverable with microscopes, and the
vascular system is not then evolved, the blood; flowing for-
wards, and backwards, in the same vessels. . The commence-
ment of life in animals of complex structure. is, from the
preceding fact, like the ultimate organization of the simpler
classes.

It is obvious that the muscles of birds are formed out of the
albumen ovi, the vitellus, and the atmospheric air, acted upon
by a certain temperature. , The albumen of a bird's egg is
wholly consumed during incubation, and the vitellus little di-
minished, proving that, the albumen contains, the principal
elementary materials of the animal thus generated ; and it
follows that the muscular parts, which. constitute the greater
proportion of such animals when hatched, are made out of the
albumen, a small portion of the vitellus, and certain elements,
or 8mall quantities of the whole compound of the atmosphere.