air-bladder and the vena caudalis () the lobes of both sides are contiguous and con-
nected by larger blood-yessels, though the renal substance itself is not coalesced. The
posterior lobes become smaller and thinner, and, being apposed to the ureters, are again
entirely separate from each other.

The ureters (d, d') are provided with thick walls, and become superficial in the 8econd
anterior fourth of the kidney ; they are perforated by only a few primary uriniferous
tubes; about half an inch before their termination they externally unite into a single
trunk, although they remain separate internally, the right entering the left close to the
single opening in the urinal cloaca (se Plate XL. fig. 2, &); this opening is round,
dorsad to the genital opening (g"), from which it is separated by a slightly raised wall
of the mucous membrane. The urinal cloaca (Plate XL. fig. 2, u) is 8mall, incompletely
separated from the termination of the rectum ; in fact it may be described as a dorsal
diverticle of the latter. The urine, consequently, passes by the vent.

The kidneys are but sparingly supplied with blood from the arterial system, by a 8mall
vessel (1) which descends on the dorsal surtface of the intestine, and therefore is one of the
extreme branches of the arteria celiac. On the other hand, a great quantity of yenous
blood is carried to them by ven& renales advehentes (k, k), which form a portal system
of the kidneys, such as has been described by HyRTL in various fishes. I describe here the
arrangement, of the right side, remarking that that of the left differs in several unim-
portant points of detail, as also probably many individual yariations occur. The posterior
vena renalis advehens comes from the lower parts of the root of the tail, and communicates
with its fellow of the other side by a short anastomosis lying on the back of the cloaca;
it emits (or receives?) a slender branch to (or from ?) the ureter, and distributes a part