use of a compact series of observations made in the autumn of 1870. These are, as a
rule, confined to low altitudes; and the range on any given night is, with one or two
exceptions, 80 small that they could not have been used with advantage in the con-
struction of the altitude curve, nor, owing to alterations in the height of the directive
magnet of the galvanometer, were they at once ayailable for the determination of, or
comparizon with, the phase curve. THowever, as they were made for the most part under
very favourable circumstances of weather, and as from their chiefly referring to the
waning moon they are important as filling an all but vacant gap in the records of |
1871-72, they are introduced here, although out of their chronological order. The
particulars of the observations are arranged in nearly the same way as those already
discussed, the only difference being that the sets taken with a plate of glass interposed
are left in their original place in the journal. As a matter of conyenience, and on
account of its greater accordance with fact, the Phase Table at p. 605 was used in place
of LanperrT's formula for the correction for the change of phase. The Table of $2 was
used for reducing to the zenith. In this way the quantities in column © log (G corr.)”
were obtained.

Occasionally the time of observation was not noted, but it could generally be deter-
mined with sufficient accuracy from the measured altitudes of the moon. As has been
already mentioned, 8ome uncertainty exists as to the height at which the directive
magnet was placed on some nights; but” as it was always used in one or other of two
positions (3-00 or 3:46 inches), the directive force on the needle being as little as 06979
in one position as compared with unity in the other, little anxiety can arise as to the
correctness of the assumptions made,
