that similar fixations of volatile substances are not uncommon.
If an ore containing sulphur, or arsenic, or antimony, be gently
roasted, a great part of those volatile bodies is driven off; but,
if a fusing heat be suddenly applied, the mass unites in such a
manner that a very small share of them escapes. Mr. HaTcyeTT
has instanced an artificial combination of gold and arsenic, from
which he could not expel the latter metal, by any degree of heat.
Yet arsenic, though less fusible, is not much less volatile than
mercury. I will also add a case still more in point; viz. the
combination of arsenic and platina, which is not to be broken by
a fusing heat.

An example of this fact, occurs again in water. The lique-
faction or solidification of two gases to produce water, by a
loss of caloric, never shocks our mind, because it is familiar to
us, We cannot say what loss of caloric may be sustained by
mercury, in order to unite with platina ; or how far the presence
of the latter may contribute to expel caloric from the former.
We know too, that at any temperature, without the aid of a
combustible body, to act as a reductive, we have not been able to
disunite the last portions of oxygen, from the oxides of iron or
of manganese. Yet, in the usual method of reducing a metallic
oxide, the oxygen is Surrounded by a much greater quantity of
caloric than is necessary to convert it into gas, Every fixation
of a volatile substance is analogous to the present question ;