of the sulphuric. Tin, antimony, bismuth, or tellurium, would
have left an insoluble residuum with nitric acid. No traces
could be found of any of the acidifiable metals ; and iron was
looked for with particular care, but in vain. In a word, the pre-
cipitation by the metals, seems to exclude all those of easier
oxidability than mercury; and this we should not supposec to be
present, as copper is not in the least whitened, when used to
precipitate palladium,

The 5triking similarity of many of the precipitates of palla-
dium with those of platina, induced me to multiply the com-
parative experiments; and I constantly observed contradictory
facts. The specific gravity, easy fusibility, combination with
sulphur, precipitation by green sulphate of iron and by prussiate
of potash, together with other effects, were such as I could not
reconcile to the known characters of platina; unless I could
suppose that a substance did exist, which could totally change
its physical and chemical properties, or so disguise them as to
render them proof against the evidence of chemical reagents.

The lightest of the metals is tellurium ; yet, in order to prc-
duce an alloy of the specific gravity of palladium, (supposing
for a moment the real density of the alloy equal to the calcu-
lated mean,) it would require two parts of tellurium and one of
platina ; and it is highly improbable, that so large a proportion