pressure increases, a result, which might be expected from the change of volume being
chiefly due to the yielding of the inner layers of the glass of which the tube was
composed. For 100 atmospheres the entire correction would, according to these experi-
ments, amount only to 575 part. TI have not thought it necessary to apply this correc-
tion, as it falls in most cases within the limits of the errors of observation ; but the
data I have given are sufficient to allow this omission to be readily supplied.

T have deemed it- important to attempt the solution of a problem of the highest
interest in itself and of the greatest importance to the accuracy of many fundamental
determinations in physics and chemistry, but which, so far as I know, has never been
made the subject of direct investigation. It is to ascertain whether mercury has to any
extent the property of absorbing gases in the same manner as water and alcohol. The
fact that gases like ammonia, which are largely absorbed by water, may be readily col-
lected and preserved over mercury, and the absence of any diminution of volume in
gaseous mixtures standing for long periods of time over mercury, rendered it highly
improbable that any such absorption would take place. It was, however, important to
ascertain whether under great pressures any indications of absorption could be found.
The following is the way in which T have attempted to resolve this question.

Having reduced the pressure to 10 atmospheres in the apparatus, mounted with an
air-manometer and carbonic acid tube, I allowed it to remain undisturbed at this low
pressure for ten days. At the end of this time, on a sunless day, which favoured accu-
rate obseryations, water was made to circulate from a large cistern, at a steady tempera-
ture of 8:39, through the rectangular vessels which enclosed the tubes; and the pressure
was then quickly raised from 10 atmospheres till half a millimetre of liquid was formed