take place on the surface; and this surface-flow must be supplied at the equator by a
flow of colder water from high latitudes, which at first would flow in an almost hori-
zontal direction, but which under the equator must rise from below to the surface. In
this manner, in the northern hemisphere, a great vertical circulation takes place in the
ocean, which has its direction above from the equator to the pole, and below from the
pole to the equator. Since these flows or currents moving in opposite directions are
distinguished by their different temperatures, we obtain in the submarine isotherm an
indication of the direction of the lower portion of this flow. A corresponding flow, but
moving in the opposite direction, takes place in the southern hemisphere; 80 that in a
zone surrounding the equator where both are united, the water flows almost in the
direction from below up to the surface; and thus one meets with cold water in much
shallower depths than in those two zones north and south which lie immediately
adjoining, and which, in fact, is shown by the observations.

*It is not my intention to enter here upon the question, how the original direction
of this current to the surface becomes greatly altered by the diminution of the speed of
rotation and by the influence of the wind, 80 that the water first arrived at the polar
regions by considerably circuitous ways, or how the lower portion of the current was
drawn westward by the entrance of bodies of water into latitudes of greater speed of
rotation ; in any case the last influence will be very much diminished by the opposition
of the west bank of the ocean, in comparison with the corresponding diversion or
drawing away which the air-currents undergo. It is sufficient for me to haye furnished
in the figure of the submarine isothermal line proof of the current from the pole to the
equator in the depth of the ocean. It would be highly desirable that future navigators
should enlarge our knowledge on this point, by a larger number of observations with