the most snitable description of powder for use in heavy ordnance, which is still con-
tiuually increasing in-size ; indeed our main object has been to endeavour to throw
additional light upon the intricate and difficult subject under inyestigation by that
Committee.

"There are perhaps few questions upon which, till within quite a recent date, such
discordant opinions have been entertained as upon the phenomena and results which
attend the combustion of gunpowder. As regards the question alone of the pressure
developed, the estimates are most discordant, varying from the 1000 atmospheres of
Ropixs to the 100,000 atmospheres of RuxrorD; or even, discarding these extreme
opinions in favour of views which have been accepted in modern text-books as more
reliable, the difference between an estimate of 2200* and of 29,000F atmospheres is
sufliciently startling as regards a physical fact of 80 much importance. The views
regarding the decomposition of gunpowder are nearly as various; and we therefore think
that a description and discussion of our own researches may be usefully preceded by a
short account of the labours of the previous investigators of this subject and of the
grounds upon which their conclusions were based.

In the year 1702, Ds La Hig, who, according to RoBINs, was the first writer on the
force of fired gunpowder, supposed that it was due to the increased elasticity of the air
contained in and between the grains, the function of the powder itself being merely
that of a heating agent. Ropixs (who, however, greatly underrated the temperature of
explosion) pointed out that the elasticity 80 acquired would not exceed 5 atmospheres,
and that such a pressure was not the two-hundredth part of the effort necessary to
produce the observed effects.