the influence which caused the nectocalyx to go into a spasm must have passed through
the narrow piece of tissne by which the wedge-shaped portion had been left in connexion
with the rest of the nectocalyx. Yet, on waiting till the spasm passed off and then
crushing with the forceps this narrow connecting piece of tissue, no response at all was
given by the nectocalyx. This experiment, therefore, clearly shows that the nerve-
trunk hypothesis will not account for the facts ; because, as the hypothesis would require
us to suppose that the entire nerve-supply by which the spasm-causing influence was
conveyed to the nectocalyx passed through the narrow connecting piece of tissue,
crushing this tissue ought, according to the hypothesis, to have produced a spasm ; for
at whatever point in the course of a nerve a stimulus is applied, the effect on the con-
tractile tissue snpplied by that nerve is the sameÂ®*,

(4) There is one other fact worth stating with regard to this wedge-shaped form of
section. Immediately after making the cuts which nearly but not quite sever the
wedge-shaped mass, it is often obseryable that the shock snffered by the narrow
connecting piece of tisswe prevents it from conducting the spasmodie influence to the
nectocalyx, the wedge itself alone going into a spaxm. After a variable time, however,
perhaps as long as a quarter of an hour, the conducting-power of the connecting-tissue
18 restored. But to produce this effect of shock, the connecting piece of tisxne must be
exceedingly narrow.

() In conclusion, T may state that anzsthetics have the effect of blocking the spas-
modic wave in any portion of tiszue that is submitted to their influence. Tt is always
observable, however, that this effect is not produced till after spontaneity has been
fully suspended, and even muscular irritability destroyed as regards direct stimulation.