for Kerguelen's Land and Rodriguez, two of the least explored and most in-
accessible oceanic islands of the southern hemisphere ; and a Committee, consisting
of Sir J. D. Hooker, Professor Huxley, and Mr. P. L. Sclater, was appointed to
prepare the application, which was laid before Her Majesty's Government in the
following terms :â€”

* Tt is an unexplained fact in the physical history of our globe, that all known
oceanie archipelagos distant from the great continents, with the s0le exceptions
of the Seychelles and of a solitary islet of the Mascarene group (which islet is
Rodriguez), are of volcanic origin. According to the meagre accounts hitherto
published, Rodriguez consists of granite overlaid with limestone and other recent
rocks, in the cayes of which have been found the remains of recently extinct birds
of a very singular structure. These facts, taken together with what is known of
the Natural History of the volcanic islets of Mauritius and Bourbon to the west
of Rodriguez and of the granitic archipelago of the Seychelles to the north of it,
render an investigation of its natural products a matter of exceptional scientific
interest, which, if properly carried out, cannot fail to be productive of most
important results.

* As regards Kerguelen's Land, this large island (100 by 50 miles) was last
visited in 1840 by the Antarctic Expedition under Sir James Ross, in midwinter
only, when it was found to contain a scanty Flora of flowering plants, some of
which belong to entirely new types, and an extraordinary profusion of marine
animals and plants of the greatest interest, many of them being representatives of
North-temperate and Arctic forms of life.