rhythm under that strength of stimulation, I found that I was generally able to
predict the precise number of single induction-shocks which I could afterwards afford
to throw in with the same strength of current, 80 as to procure a response to every
shock—this number, of course, corresponding with the rate of the rhythm previously
manifested under the faradaic stimulation. I say © generally,” because this experiment
was not invariably successful—any more, I may add, than was the first-mentioned and
almost identical experiment in which minimal stimulation was employed (see para-
graph g). Nevertheless, the exceptions were but slight, and always on the side of
somewhat fewer contractions occurring in a given time in response to the single shocks
than in response to faradaic stimulation. And as this is the direction in which we
should expect, from the principle of the summation of stimuli, that slight deviations
from the ordinary rule would occur, if they occurred at all, I do not think that the
fact of their occurrence tends to impair the confirmation which these experiments
certainly afford to the hypothesis we are considering.

(z.) Indeed, it 8eems to me that this hypothesis is 80 fully substantiated by these
experiments, that I feel it is almost superfluous to adduce another experiment having
the same tendency. Nevertheless, as the facts which the hypotbesis is intended to
explain are facts of considerable importance in themselves, and as the hypothesis in
question will be shortly employed as tending to further the theory of ganglionic action
in general, it is desirable that I should state all the experiments by which I have
hitherto endeavoured to tesb it.

The experiment which I am about to describe cannot be understood without a
preliminary account of certain properties of the contractile tissues of Aurelia, which