
Ten to twenty drops of acetic acid having been added to 1000 c.c. of sea-water, and
the paralyzed bell of Sarsia having been placed in the mixture, an interval of about
half a minute will elapse before any movement begins. Sooner or later, however, the
artificial rhythm is sure to be induced, and it will then continue for a variable time—
occasionally as long as an hour, and generally for a considerable number of minutes.
After it ceases ib may often be made to recommence, either by adding a few more
drops of acid to the sea-water, or by supplying an additional stimulus to the bell by
nipping it with the forceps. Eventually, however, all movement ceases, owing to the
destruction of irritability by the action of the acid. By this time the whole inner
surface of the bell has become strongly opalescent, owing to the destructive influence
of the acid on the epithelial cells which overspread the irritable tissues. The latter
fact is worth mentioning, becanse in no case does the artificial rhythm set in until this
opalescence has begun to show itself; and as this opalescence is but an optical expres-
sion of the damage which the epithelial coat is undergoing, the explanation of the time
which elapses after the firs immersion of the bell in the acidulated water and the
commencement of the artificial rhythm, no doubt is that during this time the acid has
not obtained sufficient access to the excitable tissnes to serve as an adequate
stimu]us.

During the s0aking stage of the experiment—1.e., before the artificial rhythm begins
—the excitability of the tissues may be observed progressively and abnormally to
increase ; for 800n after the soaking stage begins, in response to a single nip with the
forceps the bell may give two or three locomotor contractions, instead of a single one,
as is invariably the case with a paralyzed bell of Sarsia in normal water. Later on