distinct from all the other facts which are detailed in the rest of this communication ;
80 that, while their omission from the present paper does not entail any furthur modi-
fication of the latter, they will admit of being introduced en masse in my next paper.
When, therefore, I shall have completed the further experiments which in this con-
nexion I have devised, I shall hope to communicate to the Royal Society, in a single
connected geries, all the facts and inferences which bear upon this subject.‚Äù

Although I have not even yet completed all the experiments which it is desirable
to make with reference to this subject, I have this year s0 far added to their number
that I feel the research is now sufficiently ripe for publication. As already stated, an
epitome of the main facts regarding artificial rhythm has previously appeared in the
*Proceedings of the Royal Society '; but of course it will now be necessary to give a
more detailed account of these facts, no less than of those which I have more recently
observed. Stating, then, all the facts as concisely as possible, they are as follows.

(b.) If the umbrella of Aurelia aurita has been paralyzed by the removal of its
lithocysts, and if ib is then 8ubjected to faradaic stimulation of minimal intensity, the
response which it gives is not tetanic, but rhythmic. The rate of this artificial rhythm
varies in different specimens, but the limits of variation are always within those which
are observed by the natural rhythm of different specimens. The artificial rhythm is
not in every case strictly regular ; but by carefully adjusting the strength of the
current, and by shifting the electrodes from one part of the tissue to another until the
most appropriate part is ascertained, the artificial rhythm admits in most cases of
being rendered tolerably regular, and in many cases as strictly regular as is the
natural rhythm of the animal. To show this, I append a tracing of the artificial