nexion to add that, 80 800n as the equator position had been attained, and 80 800n
therefore as any further action of the uninjured feet-rows in the same direction would
have begun to get the animal into a position of ever-increasing difficulty as regards
subsequent righting, 80 800n did the serial action in this direction cease, became
reversed, and 80 again brought the animal gently into its normal position.

We have also seen wholly uninjured specimens when reaching the surface of the
water by crawling up the sides of a tank, spontaneously rear themselves upon their
equators and remain in that position for several minutes ; but we have never observed
a case of such rotation carried further than the equatorial line. The fact, however,
that such rotation from oral to ab-oral pole can take place over half the whole length
of a pair of feet-rows, proves that the feeb may act serially in either direction. The
same thing is further proved by the fact that single detached rays of Star-fish some-
times crawl backwards, and that in entire Star-fish the rays opposite to the direction
of advance work their ambulacral feet centripetally, while those on the rays facing
that direction work centrifugally.

Lastly, as proof that the ambulacral feet of Zchinus are under the control of 8ome
centralising apparatus when executing the righting manceuyre, we may state one
other fact. When the righting manceuvre is nearly completed by the rows engaged in
executing it, the lower feet in the other rows become strongly protruded and curved
downwards, in anticipation of shortly coming into contact with the floor of the tank
when the righting manceuvre shall have been completed (see Plate 83, fig. 26). This
fact tends to show that all the ambulacral feet of the animal are, like all the spines,
held in mutual communication with one another by some centralising mechanism.