
The effect of this operation upon the spines and pedicellarize still remains to be
considered. No effect at all is produced upon the pedicellariz ; but upon the spines a
profound influence is seen to be exercised. Their spontaneity, indeed, remains un-
impaired, as does also the function which they share with the pedicellariee of closing
round any instrument of stimulation ; likewise their power of responsive bristling all
over the animal when any part of the animal is severely stimulated continues to be
manifested as before, although for an hour or two after the operation this power is
suspended by shock. But the general co-ordination of the spines is totally and
permanently destroyed ; for if the animal be placed upon a table and a spirib lamp
flame held against one side, although the spines will manifest their bristling move-
ments (if the period of shock has been allowed to pass away), they will no longer
co-operate to remove the animal from the source of irritation. These facts prove, 1st,
that the general co-ordination of the spines is wholly dependent upon the nerve-centre ;
2nd, that the spontaneity and local reflex irritability are wholly independent of that
centreâ€”they depend entirely upon the external nerve-plexus ; and 3rd, that the
universal nervous connexions revealed in the bristlng movements of the spines, and
which as shown by previously narrated experiments depend upon the hypothetical
internal nerve-plexus, are themselves in nervous connexion with the nervye-centre.
For only thus can we explain the long period of shock which remoyal of this centre
entails upon the functions of this supposed internal plexus. Nevertheless, the fact
that these functions are eventually resumed in the general bristling of the spines,
proves that this general communication between the spines is maintained by the direct
conductibility of the supposed internal plexus, and is not of the nature of a reflex in
which the nerve-ring is concerned as a general centre for the responsive, as dis-