the result would be that only about 376 of the 900 lbs. applied, remained as residue
after the first 8ix years, and that nearly the whole of this was taken out during the
next even years. That ib was nob all recovered by that timie would appear from the
fact that in every one of the following seven years there was till considerably more
potass in the crop of plot 8 than in that without manure.

If, on the other hand, we suppose that the s0il yielded up as much potass from its
own stores to the crop of plob 8 as to that without manure, there would remain at the
end of the ix years of the application 567 1bs., or nearly two-thirds of the whole
supplied till to be accounted for. On the same supposition, at the end of the next 14
years there would still remain more than 300 Ibs. of the 8upplied potass as yet
unaccounted for. That some did, and does still, remain in an available condition may
be concluded from the fact that there was a considerable excess of produce, of mineral
matter, and of potass, removed from plot 8 compared with plot 3 in the two succeeding
years, 1876 and 1877, and there was again an excess of produce in 1878.

Whether, however, the soil did actually yield up from its own resources more or less
to this manured than to the unmanured produce, we have not the means of determin-
ing. Tt has been seen that the superphosphate of lime applied alone on plot 4-1
enabled the herbage to take up very little more potass from the soil. But in that case
there was extremely little increased growth. On plot 8, on the other hand, there was,
besides superphosphate, the residue of potass previously applied, an annual supply of
sulphates of soda and magnesia also, and with these considerably increased luxuriance
of growth. Under such conditions the roots of the herbage would doubtless have
pos8ession of an increased range of soil and s8ubsoil, and as it is abvious that notwith-