The season of 1874 gave more uniformly bad results than did that of 1868 give
uniformly good ones ; the produce being the twentieth, or lowest, in order of amount on
two of the highly-manured plots, seventeenth on the third, eighteenth on the mineral
manured, and seventeenth on the unmanured plot.

The difference between the produce of the two seasons was the most marked where
ammonia-salts were used; there being about 1 ton less hay in 1874 than in 1868 where
the smaller amount of ammonia-salts was applied (plot 9), and nearly 2 tons less with
the larger amount (plot 11); whilst, with the nitrate of soda, the produce in the
reputed good season was only about 1 ton more than in the reputed bad one. This
was due, however, not to any deficiency of growth with the nitrate in the good season,
but to much better growth with it than with-the ammonia-salts in the bad seasonâ€”a
result explained by the fact of the less dependence of the herbage growing under the
influence of the nitrate on atmospheric supplies of moisture during the period of
active vegetation,

In 1867, the season previous to the productive one of 1868, there had been fairly
average both first and second crops. October and November were considerably defi-
cient in rain, and both were colder than usual. December was characterised by greab
and rapid variations of temperature and barometric pressure, some extremely heavy
gales, sometimes frost, snow, and leet, at others very warm weather, with (in the
?ggregate) a fair amount of total fall. Nearly the first half of January (1868) was
also very cold, but from that time to the end of the summer the weather was unusually
warm. February, March, April, May, and June, were, indeed, all considerably warmer
than the average. The average temperature of April had, however, frequently, and